Political corruption From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia In broad terms, political corruption is the misuse of public (governmental) power for illegitimate, usually secret, private advantage. All forms of government are susceptible to political corruption. Forms of corruption vary, but the most common are patronage, bribery, extortion, influence peddling, fraud, embezzlement, and nepotism. While corruption often facilitates criminal enterprise such as drug trafficking, money laundering, and criminal prostitution, it is not restricted to these organized crime activities, and it does not always support or shield other crimes. What constitutes corruption differs depending on the country or jurisdiction. Certain political funding practices that are legal in one place may be illegal in another. In some countries, police and prosecutors have broad discretion over who to arrest and charge, and the line between discretion and corruption can be difficult to draw, as in racial profiling. In countries with strong interest group politics, practices that could easily constitute corruption elsewhere are sometimes sanctified as official group preferences. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_corruption#Bribery:_Bribe-takers_ and_bribe-givers Access: Apr. 2006.(Adapted) According to the text, whenever public power is used for illegal purposes, crime activities are restricted. personal benefits are reached. political corruption is banned. public advantage is achieved. none of the alternatives.
Leia o texto a seguir e responda à questão. NEUROSCIENCE NO MORE...PLEASE! A chocolate orgy for science’s sake. How does your brain know when you’ve had too much of a good thing? Dana Small, a cognitive neuroscientist at Northwestern University’s School of Medicine in Chicago, decided to look into it by feeding people chocolate. She stood in the hallway of her department and recruited nine self-proclaimed cocoa-bean lovers, hooked them up to MRI machines, gave them chocolate, and then measured blood flow in their brains while they ate. Between bites, they were asked two questions: “Do you want another piece?” and “On a scale of minus-10 to plus-10, how much did you like the last piece?” Of course, in the time the volunteers’ euphoria over tasting the confection turned to satiation, and, as it did, Small saw changes in their brain activity. When the subjects ate chocolate and enjoyed it, a region associated with mood – the medial part of the orbital frontal cortex – was active. But as they began to feel satiated, blood stopped flowing to that area and increased in another region probably responsible for the decision to stop eating – the adjacent lateral orbital frontal cortex. Such images will help scientists better understand how addiction causes the brain’s normal response to a good thing to go awry. But the research also yielded a curious, unexpected result: Women ate twice as much chocolate as men before getting their fill. And while men stopped eating because they began to find the chocolate unpleasant, women stopped only when their bellies were stuffed. During the course of the study, Small also discovered another interesting fact: People of Asian descent tended to be satisfied after eating only one or two pieces of chocolate. Non-Asians, on the other hand, practically gorged themselves. SINHA, G. NO MORE...PLEASE! Popular Science. New York, v. 259, n. 7, Jan. 2002, p. 42. Vocabulário to go awry: sair do curso normal gorged themselves: empanturraram-se Qual das seguintes perguntas o texto responde? How many pieces of chocolate did the participants eat? Why do the participants prefer chocolate to other sweets? How much blood flowed in the participants? brains while they ate? Which part of the brain is active when we are satiated? What is the reason why people become addicted to chocolate?
Brazilian ethanol is not causing deforestation Ethanol production in Brazil is not causing deforestation in the Amazon region, says Peter Zuurbier, Associate Professor and Director of the Latin America Office of Wageningen University, the world’s leading center of expertise on tropical agriculture. According to him, the notion often held by NGO’s that sugarcane is displacing cattle and soybean production into the Amazon is inaccurate. “The real problem lies in illegal deforestation and lack of property rights, as around 50 percent of the Amazon region has disputed titles and this is an invitation for timber companies,” he says. Prof. Zuurbier tries to explain a dynamic process between illegal activities in the Amazon rainforest and the expansion of agricultural lands towards that region. NGO’s often state that sugarcane production is displacing cattle and soybean production towards and into the Amazon, burning down the area to make it suitable for agriculture and pastures. According to Zuurbier, however, the process is slightly different. “Well organized groups and corporations with questionable land titles, but also official land owners began to chop down large acreages of forest to trade timber, both legally and illegally,” he says. “Usually, after the empty strips of land were abandoned, cattle owners would move into these cheap lands. However, after 3 to 4 years of cattle breeding, the thin soil of the Amazon is completely useless without any form of fertilization and livestock owners usually move into the next abandoned area. Soybean farmers meanwhile replace the livestock in these areas, recognizing the opportunity to fertilize the area for soybean production.” Prof. Zuurbier says the cause of deforestation and agricultural production in or near the Amazon, is simply illegal deforestation itself. According to him, the fact that Brazil still has questionable land titles, no set-aside policy and great difficulty to enforce existing laws to counter illegal timber trade, are the real reasons why the Amazon rainforest is in danger. (Ethanol Statistics - January 21st 2008, http://www.sucre-ethique.org/ Wageningen-expert-Brazilian) Indique a alternativa que completa a sentença: Prof. Zuurbier ................ the cause of deforestation and agricultural production ................ simply illegal deforestation ................ . said ... was ... himself has said ... was ... himself believed ... was ... itself believes ... were ... itself asserted ... were ... himself
Porto Seguro How to Get There “This trek ……… as ‘Trilha do Descobrimento’ and due to the remote places visited, with no infrastructure at all, the eco-tourism agencies usually ……… trip packages only during the summer and depending ……… the number of people interested. But, of course, if you have ……… own group formed, the agencies can arrange a trip for you. The prices ……… vary depending on the transport used (bus, airplane or jeep) and the number of days. The accommodation is done in tents and the meals are included. If you want an adventure on your own, check out the costs for the transportation to Porto Seguro.” (Speak up, July,2000) According to the text, trip packages to Porto Seguro are offered: Throughout the year In the sunny season Only to individuals At a unique price With excellent infra-structure
Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. A partir da fala do pai, o filho entendeu que: o pai queria dar-lhe um carro. o pai queria perdir-lhe um favor. o pai queria mostra-lhe a chave do carro. o pai estava procurando algo. o pai estava convidando-o a um passeio.
Leia o seguinte texto sobre gênero e responda à questão. Since the 1950s, the term gender has been increasingly used to distinguish a social role (gender role) and/or personal identity (gender identity) from biological sex. Sexologist John Money wrote in 1955, “the term gender role is used to signify all those things that a person says or does to disclose himself or herself as having the status of boy or man, girl or woman, respectively. Elements of such a role include clothing, speech patterns, movement and other factors not solely limited to biological sex. Many societies categorize all individuals as either male or female – however, this is not universal. Some societies recognize a third gender – for instance, the Two-Spirit people of some indigenous American peoples, and hijras of India and Pakistan – or even a fourth or fifth. Such categories may be an intermediate state between male and female, a state of sexlessness, or a distinct gender not dependent on male and female gender roles. Joan Roughgarden argues that in some non-human animal species, there can also be said to be more than two genders, in that there might be multiple templates for behavior available to individual organisms with a given biological sex. There is debate over to what extent gender is a social construct and to what extent it is a biological construct. One point of view in the debate is social constructionism, which suggests that gender is entirely a social construct. Contrary to social constructionism is essentialism, which suggests that it is entirely a biological construct. Others’ opinions on the subject lie somewhere in between. Disponível em: . Acesso em: 12 set. 2007. [Adaptado]. Vocabulary: disclose: mostrar templates: padrões In the first paragraph, gender role is defined as distinct from biological sex. Which of the following statements refers to biological sex rather than gender role? ?Women take care of their children?. ?Women support their families?. ?Women discuss relationships?. ?Women can become pregnant?. ?Women wear dresses and skirts?.
A year of fear The attacks of September 11th 2001 in America inspired extremists to commit mass murder in Bali, Riyadh, Madrid and London. The avian-flu scare in South-East Asia sent governments worldwide scrambling to buy vaccines. Religious tensions in oil-rich Nigeria routinely push energy prices higher in America. Hurricanes in the United States cost European insurance companies billions. […] Among the potential man-made disasters, terrorism remains one of the world’s big worries for 2007. There is the familiar nightmare of a massively destructive attack that kills thousands and shocks the global economy. […] And terrorism thrives on innovation. An attack on shipping in the Persian Gulf’s Strait of Hormuz, for example, could send the price of oil to $100 a barrel or more. Sharpening geopolitical tensions add to the worries. […] So far, globalisation has proved remarkably resilient. It has marched on in recent years, despite natural disasters, terrorist attacks, bloody regional conflicts, trade tensions, various economic shocks and the concerted efforts of anti-globalists. But that is no cause for complacency in what promises to be a risk-laden 2007. Leo Abruzzese, The World in 2007 TEXT affirms that: the resilience of globalisation is a guarantee against risk. the resilience of globalisation should not lead to complacency. globalisation is strong enough to overcome terrorist attacks. globalisation prevents religious conflicts. globalisation protects nations against economic shocks.
Leia o texto a seguir e responda à questão. A pesquisa sobre a transferência para outro país demonstrou que diferenças culturais têm predomínio sobre outros fatores. a idéia da mudança é descartada por 9% dos entrevistados. motivos familiares exercem grande influência na decisão final. o fator climático foi superior às vantagens financeiras. gastos com mudança são determinantes na decisão.
Researchers studying 313 healthy Vietnam veterans have found that anger, depression and hostility may increase the risk for cardiovascular disease, diabetes and high blood pressure. Over a period of ten years, the men had regular physical examinations involving a wide variety of medical tests. They also underwent psychological examinations using well-established questionnaires to determine their levels of hostility, anger and depression. The researchers measured blood levels of a protein called C3, a marker for the inflammation that is a risk factor for cardiovascular illnesses. After controlling for other variables, the scientists found that those in the highest one-quarter in hostility, anger and depression showed a steady and significant increase in C3 levels, while those in the lowest one-quarter had no increase. www.nytimes.com, August 14, 2007. Adaptado. O estudo mencionado no texto avaliou a influência de níveis de hostilidade em indivíduos deprimidos. baseou-se em diferentes tipos de exames médicos e respostas a questionários. foi importante para controlar os níveis da proteína C3 no sangue de soldados com pressão arterial elevada. foi desenvolvido para testar a relação entre pressão arterial e diabetes. concentrou-se na análise de manifestações depressivas em veteranos do Vietnã.
The texto is based on the following pressuposition: Abused victims do not know they are abused. Domestic violence is not normally denounced. Laws do not protect victims of abuse. Abusers do not receive deserved punishment. Organisations like this onde habe been nsuccessful.
HOW MUCH CAN SCHOOLS DO? In the fall of 2005, some 17 months before Cho Seung- Hui went on his killing spree at Virginia Tech, his behavior was so disturbing that his creative-writing professor had him removed from her class. Later that semester, two female students complained separately about what one called his “annoying” advances, and after an acquaintance warned that Cho might be suicidal, he was detained for several hours, evaluated at a local mental-health facility and released. When it comes to the complex intersection of campus safety and mental health, the questions of what counts as sufficient warning signs and how universities should respond to them often end up in court. Move too quickly by, say, suspending a depressed student for posing a threat upon himself or others, and schools can – and do – get sued for discriminating against the disabled. Julie Rawe; Time Magazine, April 30, 2007 The verb structure in the sentence “his (...) professor had him removed” indicates that the action occurred before another one in the past. was completed after another one in the past. was carried out by the professor. was carried out by another person. occurred with the consent of ?him?.
We can say that the text argues in favor of adaptation. financing. opportunities. partnerships. nothing.
ENVIRONMENT-BRAZIL: The Amazon Jungle as Vast Savannah Mario Osava - IPS/IFEJ RIO DE JANEIRO, Apr 10 (IPS) - An Amazon region that is less lush, where the forest will be replaced by grasslands, is the image drawn by the latest scientific reports in which meteorologists are taking the lead, going beyond even the direst warning of ecologists. If current trends continue, deforestation, which in the last 30 years claimed nearly 600,000 square kilometres in the Brazilian Amazon alone -- an area equivalent to Germany and Italy combined -- will have destroyed more than 30 percent of the jungle by 2050, according to the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). This process could "convert into savannah" as much as 60 percent of the Amazon region, says a 2003 study by Carlos Nobre and Marcos Oyama, of Brazil's National Institute of Space Research (INPE). Global warming "will greatly amplify" those effects, says the IPCC in the second volume of its 2007 report. Average temperatures in the Amazon region could rise an average of 8 degrees Celsius by the end of the century if the climate change factors continue, says meteorologist José Antonio Marengo, in a report presented to Brazil's Environment Ministry in February. In some areas, the average temperature could increase as much as 12 degrees, said Philip Fearnside, a U.S. ecologist and Amazon expert who for the last 30 years has been working with Brazil's National Institute for Amazonian Research, INPA. This will happen if nothing is done to contain deforestation or global climate change, he added. Warmer temperatures mean that trees consume more water to carry out photosynthesis, which is why it has such a big effect on forests. But climate change's great threat to the Amazon is that it could generate a permanent El Niño phenomenon (a now cyclical warming of surface waters in the Pacific Ocean), manifested in more heat and longer periods of scant rains north of the Amazon River, says Fearnside, also a contributor of the IPCC report. That was the case in 1997-1998, when drought triggered devastating fires in the northern Brazilian state of Roraima. And in 2006, a moderate El Niño greatly curbed rainfall along the Rio Negro, a main tributary of the Amazon River. Fonte: www.ipsnews.net/print.asp?idnews=37288. Adaptado. No trecho do segundo parágrafo do texto -- This process could "convert into savannah" as much as 60 percent of the Amazon region, this process -- a expressão refere-se à savanização da floresta. ao desmatamento. ao aquecimento global. ao aumento de temperatura. ao fenômeno El Niño.
What is gender anyway? […] History and science suggest that gender is more subtle and complicated than anatomy. (It’s separate from sexual orientation, too, which determines which sex we’re attracted to.) Gender helps us organize the world into two boxes, his and hers, and gives us a way of quickly sizing up every person we see on the street. “Gender is a way of making the world secure,” says feminist scholar Judith Butler. Though some scholars like Butler consider gender largely a social construct, others increasingly see it as a complex interplay of biology, genes, hormones and culture. Genesis set up the initial dichotomy: “Male and female he created them.” And historically, the differences between men and women were thought to be distinct. […] But, as society changed, the stereotypes faded. […] Still, even the most diehard feminist would likely agree that we are not exactly alike. In many cases, our habits, our posture, and even cultural identifiers like the way we dress set us apart. Now as transgender people become more visible and challenge the old boundaries, they’ve given voice to another debate–whether gender comes in just two flavors. […] “Transgender” is an umbrella term that includes anyone whose gender identity or expression differs from the sex of their birth–whether they have surgery or not. [...]However, male or female, we all start life looking pretty much the same. Newsweek, May 21st, 2007. TEXT suggests that gender is: solely a historical construct. dependent only on biology. merely genetic. just a consequence of hormones. a combination of various factors.
Porto Seguro How to Get There “This trek ……… as ‘Trilha do Descobrimento’ and due to the remote places visited, with no infrastructure at all, the eco-tourism agencies usually ……… trip packages only during the summer and depending ……… the number of people interested. But, of course, if you have ……… own group formed, the agencies can arrange a trip for you. The prices ……… vary depending on the transport used (bus, airplane or jeep) and the number of days. The accommodation is done in tents and the meals are included. If you want an adventure on your own, check out the costs for the transportation to Porto Seguro.” (Speak up, July,2000) Choose the correct alternative that fits the text above: Have known ? offers ? of ? yours ? would Has known ? offered ? in ? it ? will Is known ? offer ? on ? your ? may Are known ? is offering ? at ? his ? should Had known ? are offering ? to ? their ? must
Leia o cartum. BLANTON, L. L.; LEE, L. The multicultural workshop. Book 1. Boston, MA: Heinle & Heinle, 1994, p. 142. [Adaptado]. As informações verbal e visual do cartum permitem deduzir a seguinte fala do elefante no balão em branco: ?Back up or I?ll break every bone in your body?. ?I wonder if you could back up. I?m in a hurry?. ?Sorry, but I think you should let me pass?. ?I?m sure you won?t mind my passing first?. ?If you let me pass, I?ll be very grateful?.
Leia o trecho a seguir e responda à questão. Larabi’s Ox ... The American took several deep breaths, appearing to stare at the new mosque.… Then suddenly he was moving ahead, toward the open doorway of the mosque. “No,” the kid said. He dared to grab the American´s arm. “Please, it is not permitted.” “Rules were made to be bent.” The American puffed and winked. “Not in Morocco.” “I’d like to go in there, kid.” “But it is not permitted.” “Why not? I’ll take off my shoes.” “You are not of the faith.” “In Spain, they let anybody into mosques. What’s so special here? The kid frowned, “I am very sorry. It is not so much what is special here as what is not special everywhere else.” The American shrugged. “Well, can’t I even look in the door?” Tony Ardizzone BLANTON, L. L.; LEE, L. The multicultural workshop. Book 3. Boston, MA: Heinle & Heinle, 1995, p. 178. [Adaptado]. The American’s main wish is to open the door of the Moroccan mosque. compare Moroccan and American rules. go into the new Moroccan mosque. be of the same faith as the Moroccan. know what is special about the mosque.
Inglês - UFG 2011 What “single story” did Chimamanda Adichie believe in when she was a child? European literature is better than African literature. Literary texts are about european people. Nigerian authors do not write about Africa. There are very few Nigerian writers. Children are not able to write good texts.
Read the text carefully and answer the question according to it. Denmark “world’s happiest nation” Denmark is the happiest country in the world, according to the latest World Values Survey published by the United States National Science Foundation. The annual study surveyed people in 97 countries to discover who is happiest. The survey asked people two simple questions about their happiness and their level of satisfaction with life. Puerto Rico and Colombia completed the top three happiest nations. Zimbabwe was found to be the least happy, with Russia and Iraq also in the bottom 10. The study was directed by University of Michigan professor Ronal Inglehart. He says that unlike other studies, which have focused on economic factors, his research has found that financial prosperity is not the only reason for happiness. “Our research indicates prosperity is linked with happiness. It does contribute,“ he says, “but it is not the most important factor.” “Personal freedom is even more important, and it’s freedom in all kinds of ways. Political freedom, like with democracy and freedom of choice.” A happier world The world is becoming a happier place overall, according to the survey, which has been conducted since 1981. Dr Inglehart says that gender equality is also an indicator of happiness, as is rising social tolerance. He says that both of these things have risen dramatically in recent years. The world’s wealthiest nation, the United States, was found to be the world’s 16th happiest country, behind Switzerland, Canada and Sweden. The study also found that the countries at the bottom of the list all struggle with widespread poverty or authoritarian governments. Zimbabwe, which is gripped by hyperinflation and has recently seen a controversial presidential election marred by violence, was found to be the least happy nation amongst the countries covered by the survey. (Disponível em: http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/pr/fr/-/2/hi/in_depth/7487143.stm. Acesso em: 04 set. 2008) Brazil ranks among: the countries not mentioned. the bottom three countries. the top three countries. the countries in between. N.D.A
Texto I CALL FOR BRAZIL ABORTION DEBATE 01 Many abortions take place in illegal clinics, putting women’s lives at risk 04 The newly-appointed minister of health in Brazil has called for a wide-ranging debate on the issue of abortion 07 Under present law, abortion is only permitted when the life of the mother is at risk, or in the case of rape. The minister, 10 Jose Gomes Temporao, said in a newspaper interview he wanted to move the issue on from religious and moral contexts to a matter of health. But his remarks are thought certain to prompt a 15 firm response from the Roman Catholic Church in Brazil. 'Superficial' debate Mr Temporao says that around 200,000 women are treated for complications 20 following abortions every year, the vast majority of them believed to have taken place in illegal clinics involving a high degree of risk for the women. An opinion poll released at the weekend 25 suggests 65% of Brazilians are against changing the existing law. Mr Temporao says that result is not surprising as he believes the question has always been debated in a superficial way. 30 He told the newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo he wants Brazil to treat the discussion as a matter of public health. But there are already signs the minister can expect a vigorous response from the 35 Catholic Church, which is preparing for the arrival of Pope Benedict next month. On Friday the Archbishop of Rio de Janeiro, Cardinal Eusebio Oscar Scheid, interrupted an Easter passion play in the 40 city, walking on stage to tell the 10,000 strong audience that the massacre of innocents could not be allowed. While the Brazilian government has no official position on a referendum, it seems likely that debate on the issue will increase in the months ahead. Fonte: BBC News Monday, 9 April 2007, UK. Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. O aborto é permitido na lei atual brasileira: quando a vida da mãe é colocada em risco. quando a vida do bebê é colocada em risco. em casos de violência sexual. em casos que envolvam contextos religiosos e morais. quando a vida da mãe é colocada em risco ou em caso de estupro.
ELVIS PRESLEY: AN INTIMATE LOOK AT ‘THE KING’ 01 I wouldn’t want to speak for Elvis Presley and tell you that I was his best friend. But I can tell you this: He was my best friend. I met Elvis when I was just a boy and he was a 05 teenager. I met him on one of the last weekends before he became “Elvis,” when he was simply a truck driver who did some singing on the side. I knew him for twenty-three years, and in those years I grew up with him, lived with him, worked 10 for him, learned from him, laughed with him, and shared one amazing experience after another with him. Elvis was the first rock-and-roll superstar; I knew him as a friend. In writing this book my hope has 15 been to present Elvis not as the larger-than-life figure known around the globe, but as, simply, a very real and quite remarkable human. That’s important to me because as Elvis has become an icon and a figure of legend, I think an 20 appreciation of his humanity has been lost. Viewing Elvis as some kind of rock-and-roll superhero doesn’t do justice to his very human struggle, his talent, his life, or his legacy. He was my friend, and this book is, above all, a 25 story of friendship. The book is also a personal history, and, as such, it’s a work of memory. Sifting through six decades’ worth of memories has been no easy task, but wherever possible, efforts have been made to ensure that the 30 “history” part of the personal history is accurate. My life’s history is very much interwoven with Elvis’s, and much of his life has been extensively documented. So, if it was possible to look up or double-check a who, what, when, or where, I’ve 35 done it. Documents don’t often capture the more personal moments of life though, and that’s where memories must be sorted out. In thinking back on my life and experiences, I’ve tried to balance 40 the way I remember things now with the way I might have experienced them at the time. I’ve tried to be as honest as possible about how and why things happened, and have tried to resist the temptation to describe a past I might wish for 45 rather than the one I experienced. http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/14375930/#story Analise as alternativas abaixo: (L 24-45). I – Para o autor, o livro trata de uma história de amor e amizade. II – Para o autor, o livro trata de uma autobiografia de Elvis mostrando seus amores na época do rockand-roll. III- Para o autor, o livro é um arquivo de memórias comprovado com documentos autênticos. IV- Ao pensar nas experiências vivenciadas com Elvis, o autor pondera com maturidade os acontecimentos do passado e analisa-os como poderiam ter sido diferentes. V- O autor tentou ser honesto ao descrever minuciosamente os acontecimentos da vida de Elvis, resistindo mostrar um passado que ele gostaria que tivesse acontecido e não as experiências reais que ele presenciou. Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. Somente I, II e V são verdadeiras. Somente IV e V são verdadeiras. Somente I, III e IV são verdadeiras. Somente II, III e V são verdadeiras. Somente I, II e III são verdadeiras.
NEW YORK, (Reuters Life!) – A New Jersey man trying to exterminate insects in his apartment blew it up instead, the New York Daily News reported on Monday. Isias Vidal Maceda was unhurt in the incident, but 80 percent of his apartment was destroyed, Eatontown, New Jersey police told the newspaper. The accident occurred as Maceda was spraying for pests in his kitchen. Somehow the bug spray ignited a blast that blew out the apartment`s front windows and trigged a fire that quickly spread, the newspaper said. Police told the newspaper that the Saturday blaze also caused smoke damage to the apartment above. (http: uk.reuters.com) According to the text: After Maceda exterminated most of the insects in his kitchen, something terrible happened. Before the bug spray ignited a blast, his apartment was destroyed. As Maceda found out the bug spray had trigged a fire, he decided to call the police. Maceda had to leave his apartment from the front windows because the fire was spreading quickly in the building. Maceda was trying to exterminate some insects when something happened unexpectedly.
Leia atentamente o texto abaixo para responder a questão Why Are People Taller Today Than Yesterday? Tuesday, Jul. 08, 2008 By LAURA BLUE – TIME MAGAZINE Skeletons and written records show that human beings today are inches taller than humans just a century or two ago. And yet even today average heights vary among different nationalities, even among genetically homogenous populations, like the South Koreans and North Koreans. (South Koreans are taller.) John Komlos, professor of economics at the University of Munich and a pioneer in studying human well-being through history, explains what governs human height, and why some populations are taller than others. Q: Why are people taller today than yesterday? A: There are two main reasons. One is that the diet has improved considerably. In spite of some very negative aspects of the diet of industrialized populations, we have much better vitamin, mineral and protein intake than 100 or 200 years ago. As a consequence the body can grow much better. In addition, our health has improved considerably along with medical technology. We have fewer endemic diseases, and fewer epidemic diseases. That is important because an incidence of disease usually means that the nutrients we do consume are not absorbed by the body sufficiently. Diseases lay a claim on our energy intake, so that there is not enough left over for the body to grow. These two factors play a considerable role. We have been increasing in height for about 140 years. Prior to that, there were cycles in height, depending on economic circumstances and agricultural productivity and so forth. We were relatively tall in the Middle Ages, when population densities were relatively low and food supplies were still fairly adequate. The low point was in the 17th century. Frenchmen, for example, were about 162 cm on average [not quite 5 ft. 4 in.], which is extremely small. Only since about the middle of the 19th century there has been a general trend upwards. The American population was the tallest in the world from about the American Revolution to World War II — that’s a long time. (There is a genetic component to [population] height, but there is very little genetic difference between European populations or their overseas offshoots.) America had a very resource-rich environment, with game, fish and wildlife. In fact we have data on disadvantaged people in America, such as slaves. They were obviously among the most mistreated populations in the world, but given the resource abundance — and given the fact that the slave owners needed their work — they had to be fed relatively decently. So slaves were taller than European peasants. It’s no wonder that Europeans were just flooding to America. [Americans today are no longer the tallest people in the world.] After the Second World War, many Western and Northern European countries began to adopt certain favorable social policies. There is universal health insurance in most of these societies — that, of course, makes a difference in health care. You can also consider income inequality in America, since people who are at the low end of the totem pole have considerable adversity making ends meet. I suspect the difference [in height between Americans and Europeans] is due to both diet and health care. Americans today suffer from an additional problem: obesity. If children are too well nourished, then they’re not able to grow optimally. There are certain hormones that control the onset of the adolescent growth spurt and the onset of adolescence. Nutrition is one of the factors, along with genetic and hormonal ones, that are associated with the onset of puberty. Overnutrition prior to adolescence may affect the hormonal system and may produce too much growth hormone prior to puberty, so that sex steroids are produced earlier. And if that comes too early, then the youth will peak out sooner, and will not become as tall in adulthood as someone who had better nutrition. Also, the overload of carbohydrates and fats in a fast-food diet may hinder the consumption of micronutrients essential to growth. A dieta das pessoas tem muitos aspectos negativos atualmente, como, por exemplo, comida industrializada, contribuindo para um menor crescimento dos seres humanos. contém maiores doses de vitamina, mineral e proteína do que 100 ou 200 anos atrás, contribuindo para um maior crescimento dos seres humanos. era muito rica em vitamina, proteína e mineral 100 ou 200 anos atrás. não tem relação direta com o crescimento dos seres humanos. não melhorou nos últimos 100 ou 200 anos, devido à grande quantidade de alimentos industrializados.
Read the text carefully and answer the question according to it. Denmark “world’s happiest nation” Denmark is the happiest country in the world, according to the latest World Values Survey published by the United States National Science Foundation. The annual study surveyed people in 97 countries to discover who is happiest. The survey asked people two simple questions about their happiness and their level of satisfaction with life. Puerto Rico and Colombia completed the top three happiest nations. Zimbabwe was found to be the least happy, with Russia and Iraq also in the bottom 10. The study was directed by University of Michigan professor Ronal Inglehart. He says that unlike other studies, which have focused on economic factors, his research has found that financial prosperity is not the only reason for happiness. “Our research indicates prosperity is linked with happiness. It does contribute,“ he says, “but it is not the most important factor.” “Personal freedom is even more important, and it’s freedom in all kinds of ways. Political freedom, like with democracy and freedom of choice.” A happier world The world is becoming a happier place overall, according to the survey, which has been conducted since 1981. Dr Inglehart says that gender equality is also an indicator of happiness, as is rising social tolerance. He says that both of these things have risen dramatically in recent years. The world’s wealthiest nation, the United States, was found to be the world’s 16th happiest country, behind Switzerland, Canada and Sweden. The study also found that the countries at the bottom of the list all struggle with widespread poverty or authoritarian governments. Zimbabwe, which is gripped by hyperinflation and has recently seen a controversial presidential election marred by violence, was found to be the least happy nation amongst the countries covered by the survey. (Disponível em: http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/pr/fr/-/2/hi/in_depth/7487143.stm. Acesso em: 04 set. 2008) The ‘World Values Survey’ has been conducted for: almost 20 years. about 27 years. less than 20 years. more than 40 years. less than 10 years.
Grammar Express According to the cartoon, it’s correct to say that the student would rather not take the test today. the student has been having problems answering the math questions. the student?s chair is not as comfortable as the other student?s wheelchair. the student?s eye is blurred, which is preventing him from seeing the board well. the student wonders if his eye will be better tomorrow.
The picture story shows that te man started drinking before getting married. got drunk before beating his wife. beat his wife and the children. apologised to his two children. was confused about his behaviour.
O objetivo principal do textointrodutório é xplicar a razão pela qual Lambros cria com base em objetos. os objetos conspiram contra o autor. o leitor deve observar os objetos à sua volta. os objetos fazem o autor sofrer. Lambros aprecia cartuns sobre objetos.
ENVIRONMENT-BRAZIL: The Amazon Jungle as Vast Savannah Mario Osava - IPS/IFEJ RIO DE JANEIRO, Apr 10 (IPS) - An Amazon region that is less lush, where the forest will be replaced by grasslands, is the image drawn by the latest scientific reports in which meteorologists are taking the lead, going beyond even the direst warning of ecologists. If current trends continue, deforestation, which in the last 30 years claimed nearly 600,000 square kilometres in the Brazilian Amazon alone -- an area equivalent to Germany and Italy combined -- will have destroyed more than 30 percent of the jungle by 2050, according to the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). This process could "convert into savannah" as much as 60 percent of the Amazon region, says a 2003 study by Carlos Nobre and Marcos Oyama, of Brazil's National Institute of Space Research (INPE). Global warming "will greatly amplify" those effects, says the IPCC in the second volume of its 2007 report. Average temperatures in the Amazon region could rise an average of 8 degrees Celsius by the end of the century if the climate change factors continue, says meteorologist José Antonio Marengo, in a report presented to Brazil's Environment Ministry in February. In some areas, the average temperature could increase as much as 12 degrees, said Philip Fearnside, a U.S. ecologist and Amazon expert who for the last 30 years has been working with Brazil's National Institute for Amazonian Research, INPA. This will happen if nothing is done to contain deforestation or global climate change, he added. Warmer temperatures mean that trees consume more water to carry out photosynthesis, which is why it has such a big effect on forests. But climate change's great threat to the Amazon is that it could generate a permanent El Niño phenomenon (a now cyclical warming of surface waters in the Pacific Ocean), manifested in more heat and longer periods of scant rains north of the Amazon River, says Fearnside, also a contributor of the IPCC report. That was the case in 1997-1998, when drought triggered devastating fires in the northern Brazilian state of Roraima. And in 2006, a moderate El Niño greatly curbed rainfall along the Rio Negro, a main tributary of the Amazon River. Fonte: www.ipsnews.net/print.asp?idnews=37288. Adaptado. O aquecimento global e o desmatamento poderão elevar a temperatura em algumas áreas da Amazônia em até 12ºC. já aumentaram a temperatura média de 8ºC para 12ºC nos últimos 30 anos. elevarão a temperatura mesmo que o desmatamento seja contido. causarão mudanças climáticas irreversíveis que secarão as savanas. são inevitáveis, mas seu efeito sobre a floresta amazônica pode ser controlado.
A letra da música traz características do dialeto londrino Cockney, utilizado pela classe trabalhadora de East End: loverly em vez de lovely, 'eato em vez de heat,' ands em vez de hands, 'ead em vez de head etc. Tais características evidenciam uma particularidade da significação pontuação acentuação sintaxe pronúncia.
In 1993, the dawn of the Internet age, the liberating anonymity of the online world was captured in a wellknown New Yorker cartoon. One dog, sitting at a computer, tells another: “On the Internet, nobody knows you’re a dog.” Fifteen years later, that anonymity is gone. Technology companies have long used “cookies,” little bits of tracking software slipped into your computer, and other means, to record the Web sites you visit, the ads you click on, even the words you enter in search engines – information that some hold onto forever. They’re not telling you they’re doing it, and they’re not asking permission. Internet service providers (I.S.P.’s) are now getting into the act. Because they control your connection, they can keep track of everything you do online, and there have been reports that I.S.P.’s may have started to sell the information they collect. The driving force behind this prying is commerce. The big growth area in online advertising right now is “behavioral targeting.” Web sites can charge a premium if they are able to tell the maker of an expensive sports car that its ads will appear on Web pages clicked on by upperincome, middle-aged men. The New York Times, April 5th 2008. ISP = Provedores de serviço de internet. As personagens dos quadrinhos, mencionadas no texto, se vangloriam de sua alegria de viver. seu anonimato. sua capacidade de navegar na internet. seu mundo longe das telas. sua vida simples, como a de um cão.
Inglês - UFG 2010/1 Which statement supports the argument presented in th book? The current warming is part of a natural cycle of climate warming and cooling. Carbon dioxide emissions should be controlled by rationing. Alternative energy helps to decrease greenhouse gases. The Worst consequence of global warming will be the rise in sea level. Human activity has been the driving force in climate change over the last 50 years.
Read the text carefully and answer the question according to it. Denmark “world’s happiest nation” Denmark is the happiest country in the world, according to the latest World Values Survey published by the United States National Science Foundation. The annual study surveyed people in 97 countries to discover who is happiest. The survey asked people two simple questions about their happiness and their level of satisfaction with life. Puerto Rico and Colombia completed the top three happiest nations. Zimbabwe was found to be the least happy, with Russia and Iraq also in the bottom 10. The study was directed by University of Michigan professor Ronal Inglehart. He says that unlike other studies, which have focused on economic factors, his research has found that financial prosperity is not the only reason for happiness. “Our research indicates prosperity is linked with happiness. It does contribute,“ he says, “but it is not the most important factor.” “Personal freedom is even more important, and it’s freedom in all kinds of ways. Political freedom, like with democracy and freedom of choice.” A happier world The world is becoming a happier place overall, according to the survey, which has been conducted since 1981. Dr Inglehart says that gender equality is also an indicator of happiness, as is rising social tolerance. He says that both of these things have risen dramatically in recent years. The world’s wealthiest nation, the United States, was found to be the world’s 16th happiest country, behind Switzerland, Canada and Sweden. The study also found that the countries at the bottom of the list all struggle with widespread poverty or authoritarian governments. Zimbabwe, which is gripped by hyperinflation and has recently seen a controversial presidential election marred by violence, was found to be the least happy nation amongst the countries covered by the survey. (Disponível em: http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/pr/fr/-/2/hi/in_depth/7487143.stm. Acesso em: 04 set. 2008) Complete the statement with one of the alternatives. Different kinds of freedom are _________ economic prosperity for people to be happy. as influential as less influential than more influential than not to be compared with n.d.a
01 Madeleine McCann's parents return to U.K. Couple, now suspects, deny involvement in disappearance of 4-year-old 05 McCann's father: 'Heartbreaking' return Sept. 9: The parents of missing four-yearold Madeleine McCann have returned to the U.K. after being named suspects in their daughter's disappearance. Watch Gerry 10 McCann's statement to the press upon the family's arrival on British soil. MSNBC:Updated: 10:02 a.m. ET Sept. 9, 2007 CASTLE DONINGTON, England – A 15 British couple named as suspects in the disappearance of their 4-year-old daughter returned to England Sunday, days after being grilled by Portuguese police about new forensic evidence authorities believe 20 ties them to the case. Kate and Gerry McCann, who have strongly denied any involvement in the disappearance of their daughter Madeleine, flew from Faro in southern Portugal with 25 their 2-year-old twins. The father said the couple wanted “to consider the events of the last few days, which have been so deeply disturbing.” “While it is heartbreaking to return to the 30 U.K. without Madeleine, it does not mean we are giving up the search for her,” Gerry McCann said on the airport tarmac in central England. Fonte: www.cnn.com.br Assinale a alternativa INCORRETA. to, in, of, upon, by, without, about, with, from, for, after e up pertencem à classe das preposições. Na frase While it is heartbreaking to return to the U.K. without Madeleine ( linhas 29 e 30), o primeiro to tem a função de indicar o infinitivo do verbo return, e o segundo to, a função de indicar direção. A preposição from ( linha 24) indica o sentido de origem, deslocamento. A combinação in the ( linha 15) corresponde a no, na, nos, nas, e of the ( linha 26), a do, da, dos, das. A preposição after ( linha 17) significa antes, e exige que o verbo que o suceda esteja flexionado na forma do gerúndio.
Leia o seguinte trecho de um diálogo entre os irmãos Biff e Happy, personagens da peça Death of a Salesman, de Arthur Miller, e responda à questão. BIFF: I’m thirty-four years old, I oughta be makin’ my future. That’s when I come running home. And now, I get here, and I don’t know what to do with myself. [After a pause] I’ve always made a point of not wasting my life, and everytime I come back here I know that all I’ve done is to waste my life. HAPPY: You’re a poet, you know that, Biff? You’re a – you’re an idealist! BIFF: No, I’m mixed up very bad. Maybe I oughta get married. Maybe I oughta get stuck into something. Maybe that’s my trouble. I’m like a boy. I’m not married, I’m not in business, I just – I’m like a boy. Are you content, Hap? You’re a success, aren’t you? Are you content? HAPPY: Hell, no! BIFF: Why? You’re making money, aren’t you? HAPPY: [moving about with energy, expressiveness]: All I can do now is wait for the merchandise manager to die. MILLER, A. Death of a Salesman. London: Penguin, 1962. p. 16-17. O conflito de Biff aparece bem marcado no texto em decorrência do uso de coloquialismo. descrição. comparação. exclamação. repetição.
Read the text carefully and answer the question according to it. Denmark “world’s happiest nation” Denmark is the happiest country in the world, according to the latest World Values Survey published by the United States National Science Foundation. The annual study surveyed people in 97 countries to discover who is happiest. The survey asked people two simple questions about their happiness and their level of satisfaction with life. Puerto Rico and Colombia completed the top three happiest nations. Zimbabwe was found to be the least happy, with Russia and Iraq also in the bottom 10. The study was directed by University of Michigan professor Ronal Inglehart. He says that unlike other studies, which have focused on economic factors, his research has found that financial prosperity is not the only reason for happiness. “Our research indicates prosperity is linked with happiness. It does contribute,“ he says, “but it is not the most important factor.” “Personal freedom is even more important, and it’s freedom in all kinds of ways. Political freedom, like with democracy and freedom of choice.” A happier world The world is becoming a happier place overall, according to the survey, which has been conducted since 1981. Dr Inglehart says that gender equality is also an indicator of happiness, as is rising social tolerance. He says that both of these things have risen dramatically in recent years. The world’s wealthiest nation, the United States, was found to be the world’s 16th happiest country, behind Switzerland, Canada and Sweden. The study also found that the countries at the bottom of the list all struggle with widespread poverty or authoritarian governments. Zimbabwe, which is gripped by hyperinflation and has recently seen a controversial presidential election marred by violence, was found to be the least happy nation amongst the countries covered by the survey. (Disponível em: http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/pr/fr/-/2/hi/in_depth/7487143.stm. Acesso em: 04 set. 2008) The ranking of the U.S.A. in the results of the survey indicates that: the U.S.A. is a happier country than Sweden is. Canada is not as happy as the United States is. economic wealth alone does not determine happiness. freedom of speech is the only guarantee of happiness. N.D.A
Segudo o texto, a China aproveitou o momento da crise mundial e fez vários investimentos o próprio país. teve problemas econômicos similares aos dos países europeus, mas conseguiu superá-los. hesitava em investir em países asiáticos e perdeu boas oportunidades na região. aumentou seus investimentos na Europa no ano passado. ressurgiu com opotência mundial após vários anos de isolamento.
Cambridge, 13th June 2007 Carpenter’s Cottages Fleet Street Holt, Norfolk WC IPP Dear Sir, I saw your advertisement in today’s newspaper and I am interested in a holiday letting at Carpenter’s Cottages. Please send me some information about the cottages, including the cost for a family of five, with two children, for a fortnight. Is there a price reduction for children under five? Yours faithfully, Samantha Burton The text is: an invitation. a job application. a letter asking for information. a thank-you note. a letter of complaint.
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC NEWS REPORTING OUR WORLD DAILY Dog Genome Mapped, Shows Similarities to Humans Stefan Lovgren for National Geographic News, December 7, 2005 Researchers have finished mapping the genome of the domestic dog. The results show among other things that dogs, mice, and humans share a core set of DNA. A rough sequencing of a poodle's genome was reported in 2003, but it covered only about 75 percent of the genes. This time, "we have sequenced 99 percent of the genome of a female boxer," said Kerstin Lindblad-Toh, a geneticist at the Broad Institute of Harvard University and MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She is the lead author of the dog-gene study, which appears tomorrow in the journal Nature. The researchers also examined DNA from ten different dog breeds to spot genetic differences between them. The comparison could help scientists find the genetic roots of dog behavior and physiology and − perhaps most importantly − help them identify genes that cause diseases in both dogs and humans. Using tissue taken from a boxer named Tasha, scientists have mapped the genome of the domestic dog. (Disponível em http://news.nationalgeographic.com. Acesso em 21/12/2005.) Em relação às informações contidas no texto, marque V para as verdadeiras e F para as falsas. ( ) Pesquisas mostraram haver diferenças genéticas entre dez raças diferentes de cães. ( ) O genoma de uma fêmea boxer foi a base para o mapeamento genético de cão doméstico. ( ) Pesquisadores identificaram que seres humanos e cães têm genes semelhantes. Assinale a seqüência correta. F, F, V V, F, F V, V, F F, V, V F, V, F
Maya Angelou is hailed as one of the great voices of American literature and as a remarkable Renaissance woman. Being a poet, educator, historian, best-selling author, actress, playwright, civil-rights activist, producer and director, Dr. Angelou continues to travel the world making appearances, and spreading her legendary wisdom. Born April 4, 1928 in Saint Louis, Missouri, Maya Angelou`s given name was Marguerite Johnson. In her early twenties she was given the name Maya Angelou after her debut performance as a dancer at the Purple Onion Cabaret. The author`s father, Bailey Johnson, was a naval dietician, and her mother was Vivian Johnson. She has one sibling, a brother named Bailey after their father. When she was about three years old, their parents divorced and the children were sent to live with their grandmother in Stamps, Arkansas. Angelou claims that her grandmother, whom she called “momma”, had a deep-brooding love that hung over everything she touched. Growing up in Stamps, Angelou learned what it was like to be a black girl in a world whose boundaries were set by whites. She learned what it meant to have to wear old hand-me-downs from a white woman. And she also learned the humiliation of being refused treatment by a white dentist. As a child, she always dreamed of waking to find her “nappy black hair” metamorphosed to a long blond bob, because she felt life was better for a white girl than for a black girl. Despite the odds, her grandmother instilled pride in Angelou with religion as an important element in their home. After five years of being apart from their mother, the children were sent back to Saint Louis to be with her. This move eventually took a turn for the worst, when Angelou was raped by her mother`s boyfriend. The devastating act of violence committed against her caused her to become mute for nearly five years. She was sent back to Stamps because no one could handle the grim state Angelou was in. With the constant help of a woman named Mrs. Flowers, Angelou began to evolve into the young girl who had possessed the pride and confidence she once had. Again in 1940, her brother and her were sent to San Francisco to live with their mother. Life with her mother was a constant disorder. Living with her mother soon became too much for her, so she ran away to be with her father and his girlfriend in their rundown trailer. Finding that life with him was no better, she ended up living in a graveyard of wrecked cars that mainly housed homeless children. It took her a month to get back home to her mother. Angelou`s dysfunctional childhood, spent moving back and forth between her mother and grandmother, caused her to struggle with maturity. She became determined to prove she was a woman and began to rush toward maturity. Angelou soon found herself pregnant, and at the age of sixteen she delivered her son,Guy. (http:voices.cla.umn.edu vg) Consider the following information: 1. The city where Maya Angelou was born. 2. The number of dancing presentations she carried out before she was given a new name. 3. The number of brothers and sisters Angelou had. 4. The reason Angelou`s parents divorced. 5. The relative with whom Angelou went to live after her parents divorced. 6. The occupation Angelou had at the Purple Onion cabaret. 7. The amount of money she used to earn at the Purple Onion cabaret. 8. The church Angelou attended while living with her grandmother. What information is in the text? Only 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6. Only 1, 3, 5, 7 and 8. Only 2, 4, 6 and 7. Only 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. Only 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8.
Political corruption From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia In broad terms, political corruption is the misuse of public (governmental) power for illegitimate, usually secret, private advantage. All forms of government are susceptible to political corruption. Forms of corruption vary, but the most common are patronage, bribery, extortion, influence peddling, fraud, embezzlement, and nepotism. While corruption often facilitates criminal enterprise such as drug trafficking, money laundering, and criminal prostitution, it is not restricted to these organized crime activities, and it does not always support or shield other crimes. What constitutes corruption differs depending on the country or jurisdiction. Certain political funding practices that are legal in one place may be illegal in another. In some countries, police and prosecutors have broad discretion over who to arrest and charge, and the line between discretion and corruption can be difficult to draw, as in racial profiling. In countries with strong interest group politics, practices that could easily constitute corruption elsewhere are sometimes sanctified as official group preferences. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_corruption#Bribery:_Bribe-takers_ and_bribe-givers Access: Apr. 2006.(Adapted) According to the text, the notion of corruption changes from place to place. constitutes legal activities. reflects the official elections. results in racial profiling. none of the alternatives.
Inglês - UFG 2011 Body language is a form of non-verbal communication, which consists of body posture, gestures, facial expressions, and eye movements. Which picture shows a typical expression of a dreamer who is waiting for a soul mate that will certainly appear at some point? Disponível em: <http://www.trendhunter.com/trends/pet-peeves-I-love-you-but-picture-book>. Acesso em: 15 set. 2010.
Leia o texto a seguir e responda à questão. NEUROSCIENCE NO MORE...PLEASE! A chocolate orgy for science’s sake. How does your brain know when you’ve had too much of a good thing? Dana Small, a cognitive neuroscientist at Northwestern University’s School of Medicine in Chicago, decided to look into it by feeding people chocolate. She stood in the hallway of her department and recruited nine self-proclaimed cocoa-bean lovers, hooked them up to MRI machines, gave them chocolate, and then measured blood flow in their brains while they ate. Between bites, they were asked two questions: “Do you want another piece?” and “On a scale of minus-10 to plus-10, how much did you like the last piece?” Of course, in the time the volunteers’ euphoria over tasting the confection turned to satiation, and, as it did, Small saw changes in their brain activity. When the subjects ate chocolate and enjoyed it, a region associated with mood – the medial part of the orbital frontal cortex – was active. But as they began to feel satiated, blood stopped flowing to that area and increased in another region probably responsible for the decision to stop eating – the adjacent lateral orbital frontal cortex. Such images will help scientists better understand how addiction causes the brain’s normal response to a good thing to go awry. But the research also yielded a curious, unexpected result: Women ate twice as much chocolate as men before getting their fill. And while men stopped eating because they began to find the chocolate unpleasant, women stopped only when their bellies were stuffed. During the course of the study, Small also discovered another interesting fact: People of Asian descent tended to be satisfied after eating only one or two pieces of chocolate. Non-Asians, on the other hand, practically gorged themselves. SINHA, G. NO MORE...PLEASE! Popular Science. New York, v. 259, n. 7, Jan. 2002, p. 42. Vocabulário to go awry: sair do curso normal gorged themselves: empanturraram-se Da leitura do texto, percebe-se que a pergunta inicial expressa o interesse de um grupo de obesos. é respondida pelos participantes da pesquisa. cria expectativa para a apresentação do assunto. evidencia a complexidade do fenômeno. revela uma preocupação dos participantes.
Ao final do texto, o narrador descreve uma sensação incapaz de ser atenuada até mesmo por um sentimento meio-prazeroso, definido como poético. inenarrável. inusitado. sombrio. enigmático.
SAVING THE WORLD IS WITHIN OUR GRASP By Bill Gates Last year my wife, Melinda, and I visited an AIDS clinic in Durban, South Africa. We met women who walked miles from nearby townships. When they arrived, they were greeted by a well-trained staff. There was an ample supply of antiretroviral drugs, which can help people with AIDS stay healthy for years. Patients were receiving counseling. As we chatted with one of the doctors in the clinic, it struck me: something was fundamentally different. Nearly a decade ago, when Melinda and I started our foundation, we would go to sub-Saharan Africa or developing countries in other regions and see health workers struggling with broken equipment and empty medicine chests. We walked down dirty hallways packed with exhausted mothers holding sick children. (…) But that’s starting to change. Today governments, aid groups and communities are simply refusing to accept the notion that diseases like malaria and tuberculosis will haunt us forever. The evidence is in: these problems can be solved. The world can point to a number of victories already. Smallpox is gone, of course, and polio nearly so. Thanks to the leadership of the Carter Center, we’ve virtually eliminated guinea-worm disease, an excruciatingly painful parasite that is ingested with tainted water. There are new treatments available for visceral leishmaniasis, also called black fever, which is second only to malaria as the world’s deadliest parasite killer. […] Some lifesaving solutions can be extremely simple – iodized salt to prevent stunted growth, for example, or oral rehydration solutions to fight diarrhea. Consider that one of the easiest ways to cut down on infant mortality is to keep babies warm and dry. Earlier this year, Save the Children recruited knitters through the internet to knit and crochet 280,000 caps for infants. Other solutions will arise from pioneering research now underway. Researchers are hard at work developing vaccines that don’t need refrigeration or needles, which could make it easier and cheaper to deliver immunization in poor countries. Scientists are making important progress on new tools, like microbicide gels, to help women protect themselves against HIV. And clinical trials around the world are now testing what may be the greatest scientific breakthroughs of our time: vaccines for malaria, Tb and AIDS. (…) At the same time, I’m amazed by the work of the Nothing But Nets campaign, which has managed through Web-based marketing to raise $13 million – mostly from young people – for insecticide-treated bed nets. I believe we stand at a moment of unequaled opportunity. Governments must now step up to the plate with more money – wisely targeted – to expand effective global health programs to reach all those in need. Businesses, community groups and individuals all play a role as well. When Melinda and I visited that PEPFAR clinic in South Africa, we were thrilled to see the progress we’ve made against one deadly disease. I’m now more convinced than ever that we can create a healthier world for everyone. From: NEWSWEEK, OCTOBER 1, 2007 A very simple way to reduce infant mortality is to use iodized salt in the kids? meals. develop lifesaving drugs and vaccines. apply vaccines that don?t need refrigeration. protect children from the cold weather and dampness. n.d.a.
Texto II BRAZIL FLIGHTS CRIPPLED BY STRIKE 01 Airports have resumed flights in Brazil after air traffic controllers suspended a strike called to protest about their working conditions. 05 Government negotiators and trade unions reached an agreement to end the strike, which briefly halted all flights out of all of the country's 49 airports. Action had spread across Brazil after air 10 traffic controllers began a hunger strike in the capital, Brasilia. Thousands of passengers were left stranded by the protest. The striking controllers had said they had 15 lost all confidence in their commanders and the equipment at their disposal. Air traffic controllers in Brazil have staged similar protests since last September, when 154 people were killed in the country's 20 worst air disaster. The BBC's Tim Hirsch in Sao Paulo says internal flights have been in a state of chaos since the crash. Fonte: BBC NEWS, 31 March 2007 – UK A locução verbal “have resumed” ( linha 01) significa: resumiram. reduziram. cancelaram. retomaram. confirmaram.
Texto I CALL FOR BRAZIL ABORTION DEBATE 01 Many abortions take place in illegal clinics, putting women’s lives at risk 04 The newly-appointed minister of health in Brazil has called for a wide-ranging debate on the issue of abortion 07 Under present law, abortion is only permitted when the life of the mother is at risk, or in the case of rape. The minister, 10 Jose Gomes Temporao, said in a newspaper interview he wanted to move the issue on from religious and moral contexts to a matter of health. But his remarks are thought certain to prompt a 15 firm response from the Roman Catholic Church in Brazil. 'Superficial' debate Mr Temporao says that around 200,000 women are treated for complications 20 following abortions every year, the vast majority of them believed to have taken place in illegal clinics involving a high degree of risk for the women. An opinion poll released at the weekend 25 suggests 65% of Brazilians are against changing the existing law. Mr Temporao says that result is not surprising as he believes the question has always been debated in a superficial way. 30 He told the newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo he wants Brazil to treat the discussion as a matter of public health. But there are already signs the minister can expect a vigorous response from the 35 Catholic Church, which is preparing for the arrival of Pope Benedict next month. On Friday the Archbishop of Rio de Janeiro, Cardinal Eusebio Oscar Scheid, interrupted an Easter passion play in the 40 city, walking on stage to tell the 10,000 strong audience that the massacre of innocents could not be allowed. While the Brazilian government has no official position on a referendum, it seems likely that debate on the issue will increase in the months ahead. Fonte: BBC News Monday, 9 April 2007, UK. O pronome “them” na ( linha 21) refere-se a: Mr Temporao. 200,000 women. complications. abortions. illegal clinics.
'Breast-Feeding Is Obscene' 01 Thirty-nine states currently have laws that specifically allow women to breast-feed in any public or private location. Apparently, that doesn't apply to nursing over the 05 Internet. Australia's Sydney Morning Herald last week reported a story on Facebook's antibreast- feeding stance. The social networking site that recently opened its doors to grownups 10 has been removing user photos of breast-feeding, calling them obscene, and has blocked some nursing-mom-photoposters from the site, including breastfeeding advocate and blogger Karen Speed. 15 According to SMH, Facebook spokeswoman Meredith Chin said, "Photos containing an exposed breast do violate our Terms and are removed." Much like every other breastfeeding mom slight in the past few years 20 (most recently Applebee's and Delta Air Lines), this one has sparked a protest of its own. The virtual ban has been met with a virtual group/petition entitled: "Hey, Facebook, breastfeeding is not obscene!" 25 Since the group's launch in June, more than 9,000 folks, both men and women, have joined it. Moms who have posted photos ask, what constitutes "exposed breast?" Is it the nipple 30 or the inch or so of flesh you see after the baby's latched on? Many simply are telling Facebook to grow up. Breast-feeding is natural and healthy for children. The government encourages moms to nurse. 35 Many states protect women's rights to do so wherever they may be when their hungry babies start demanding food. I've got to think that the folks at Facebook have better things to do than battle over a 40 woman's right to nurse in public, particularly with all the much more obscene groups on the site focused on both women's and men's genitalia. What do you think? Fonte: www.blog.washingtonpost.com.br O sufixo –ly é uma marca de advérbio, todavia, nem toda palavra terminada em –ly é advérbio. Assinale a alternativa em que a palavra terminada em –ly NÃO é advérbio: currently ( linha 1) apply ( linha 4) apparently ( linha 3) recently ( linha 9) simply ( linha 31)
“Researchers and public-health officials have long understood that to maintain a given weight, energy in (calories consumed) must equal energy out (calories expended). But then they learned that genes were important, too, and that for some people this formula was tilted in a direction that led to weight gain. Since the discovery of the first obesity gene in 1994, scientists have found about 50 genes involved in obesity. Some of them determine how individuals lay down fat and metabolize energy stores. Others regulate how much people want to eat in the first place, how they know when they’ve had enough and how likely they are to use up calories through activities ranging from fidgeting to running marathons. People who can get fat on very little fuel may be genetically programmed to survive in harsher environments. When the human species got its start, it was an advantage to be efficient. Today, when food is plentiful, it is a hazard.” http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/13/magazine/13obesity.html. According to the text, today?s obesity may be linked to evolutionary factors. the human species is programmed to eat as much as possible to survive. the ingestion of large quantities of food was an advantage in the past. obese people have some advantages over slim people. very little food is necessary to survive in some environments.
A year of fear The attacks of September 11th 2001 in America inspired extremists to commit mass murder in Bali, Riyadh, Madrid and London. The avian-flu scare in South-East Asia sent governments worldwide scrambling to buy vaccines. Religious tensions in oil-rich Nigeria routinely push energy prices higher in America. Hurricanes in the United States cost European insurance companies billions. […] Among the potential man-made disasters, terrorism remains one of the world’s big worries for 2007. There is the familiar nightmare of a massively destructive attack that kills thousands and shocks the global economy. […] And terrorism thrives on innovation. An attack on shipping in the Persian Gulf’s Strait of Hormuz, for example, could send the price of oil to $100 a barrel or more. Sharpening geopolitical tensions add to the worries. […] So far, globalisation has proved remarkably resilient. It has marched on in recent years, despite natural disasters, terrorist attacks, bloody regional conflicts, trade tensions, various economic shocks and the concerted efforts of anti-globalists. But that is no cause for complacency in what promises to be a risk-laden 2007. Leo Abruzzese, The World in 2007 Which of the following groups of words in TEXT consists only of irregular verbs: buy, is, push, scare, cost. attacks, buy, cost, flown, send flown, scare, is, buy, attacks. is, send, cost, flown, buy. kills, shocks, flown, buy, is.
Broca impede o falante de entender a língua. Broca produz efeitos no ritmo da fala. Wernicke impede a pessoa de falar. Wernicke provoca prejuízo na pronúncia. Wernicke exige mudanças na alimentação.
'Breast-Feeding Is Obscene' 01 Thirty-nine states currently have laws that specifically allow women to breast-feed in any public or private location. Apparently, that doesn't apply to nursing over the 05 Internet. Australia's Sydney Morning Herald last week reported a story on Facebook's antibreast- feeding stance. The social networking site that recently opened its doors to grownups 10 has been removing user photos of breast-feeding, calling them obscene, and has blocked some nursing-mom-photoposters from the site, including breastfeeding advocate and blogger Karen Speed. 15 According to SMH, Facebook spokeswoman Meredith Chin said, "Photos containing an exposed breast do violate our Terms and are removed." Much like every other breastfeeding mom slight in the past few years 20 (most recently Applebee's and Delta Air Lines), this one has sparked a protest of its own. The virtual ban has been met with a virtual group/petition entitled: "Hey, Facebook, breastfeeding is not obscene!" 25 Since the group's launch in June, more than 9,000 folks, both men and women, have joined it. Moms who have posted photos ask, what constitutes "exposed breast?" Is it the nipple 30 or the inch or so of flesh you see after the baby's latched on? Many simply are telling Facebook to grow up. Breast-feeding is natural and healthy for children. The government encourages moms to nurse. 35 Many states protect women's rights to do so wherever they may be when their hungry babies start demanding food. I've got to think that the folks at Facebook have better things to do than battle over a 40 woman's right to nurse in public, particularly with all the much more obscene groups on the site focused on both women's and men's genitalia. What do you think? Fonte: www.blog.washingtonpost.com.br O sufixo –ing em inglês é usado para formar o gerúndio e substantivos, e, dependendo da posição, pode ser usado como adjetivo. Assinale a alternativa em que o sufixo –ing corresponde a um substantivo, na linha indicada: removing ( linha 10) containing ( linha 16) telling ( linha 31) nursing ( linha 4) demanding ( linha 37)
Learning How to Behave Most people are unaware they possess a quite remarkable skill, which is usually overlooked because it is exercised daily, and in the most ordinary contexts. But without it, our lives would be unfulfilled and empty. It is the ability to relate to others, to encourage them in conversation, to operate as social and sociable individuals and to develop both shortterm and long-term relationships ___(1)___. We are not born with this ability. There is nothing wired into the human brain that provides us with set responses to social situations. To perform effectively in a world ___(2)___, encounters and relationships, we have to learn what to do. Small babies, as any parent will remember, are among the least sociable beings ___(3)___. They are totally demanding, utterly selfish and scream with rage if their every whim is not immediately satisfied. Somehow this unlikely raw material is transformed over the years into a being which relies for its survival on being able to form reciprocal bonds with others and to follow complex rules ___(4)___. The monstrous infant becomes the caring, responsible adult whose life experiences revolve around both the joys and pains, the giving and receiving, of friendships and other relationships. It is this remarkable transformation which is the central characteristic of being human. “We are not born with this ability”. Which ability does the text refer to? The ability to understand our brain. The ability to get along socially well with other people. The ability to understand effectivily the world. The ability to practice our talents daily. The ability to find adequate people for us to relate.
In the story above, Garfield is practicing kitty door smashing. wonders what to do after killing the mailman on the sidewalk. is testing his running skills around the house. believes Match 2 is considered federal offense. is afraid of being caught by the mailman.
ENVIRONMENT-BRAZIL: The Amazon Jungle as Vast Savannah Mario Osava - IPS/IFEJ RIO DE JANEIRO, Apr 10 (IPS) - An Amazon region that is less lush, where the forest will be replaced by grasslands, is the image drawn by the latest scientific reports in which meteorologists are taking the lead, going beyond even the direst warning of ecologists. If current trends continue, deforestation, which in the last 30 years claimed nearly 600,000 square kilometres in the Brazilian Amazon alone -- an area equivalent to Germany and Italy combined -- will have destroyed more than 30 percent of the jungle by 2050, according to the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). This process could "convert into savannah" as much as 60 percent of the Amazon region, says a 2003 study by Carlos Nobre and Marcos Oyama, of Brazil's National Institute of Space Research (INPE). Global warming "will greatly amplify" those effects, says the IPCC in the second volume of its 2007 report. Average temperatures in the Amazon region could rise an average of 8 degrees Celsius by the end of the century if the climate change factors continue, says meteorologist José Antonio Marengo, in a report presented to Brazil's Environment Ministry in February. In some areas, the average temperature could increase as much as 12 degrees, said Philip Fearnside, a U.S. ecologist and Amazon expert who for the last 30 years has been working with Brazil's National Institute for Amazonian Research, INPA. This will happen if nothing is done to contain deforestation or global climate change, he added. Warmer temperatures mean that trees consume more water to carry out photosynthesis, which is why it has such a big effect on forests. But climate change's great threat to the Amazon is that it could generate a permanent El Niño phenomenon (a now cyclical warming of surface waters in the Pacific Ocean), manifested in more heat and longer periods of scant rains north of the Amazon River, says Fearnside, also a contributor of the IPCC report. That was the case in 1997-1998, when drought triggered devastating fires in the northern Brazilian state of Roraima. And in 2006, a moderate El Niño greatly curbed rainfall along the Rio Negro, a main tributary of the Amazon River. Fonte: www.ipsnews.net/print.asp?idnews=37288. Adaptado. Se o desmatamento continuar no ritmo atual, até 2050, a Alemanha e a Itália juntas caberão na área devastada. 600.000 km2 da floresta Amazônica se transformarão em savana. o cerrado do planalto central avançará sobre a Amazônia. cerca de um terço da floresta amazônica desaparecerá. a degradação ambiental que se iniciou em 2003 atingirá a Amazônia.
Os termos em português equivalentes às palavras alleys, lie, mice, neighborhood e scams na história são, respectivamente, becos, mentira, ratos, vizinhança, atos ilícitos. criminosos, mentira, filhotes, guarda-sol, atoes ilícitos. becos, lei, ratos, vizinhança, animais pequenos. criminosos, lei, filhotes, guarda-sol, animais pequenos. criminosos, lei, ratos, guarda-sol, animais pequenos.
From the text, we can infer that salt has become a reference in cooking. has been found to be unlimited. has debatable physiological action. has influenced social practices. has influenced nothing.
Indique a alternativa composta de duas orações cujas afirmações se opõem. When I started running seven years ago, I could manage only 400 meters before I had to stop. But the biggest pay-off for me was ? and still is ? the deep relaxation that I achieve. It tires me out but I find that it does calm me down. My story shows that an unfit 39-year-old can do the marathon. Build up the jogging in stages until you can do the whole distance comfortably.
THE GIRLS FROM BRAZIL by Mac Margolis At a glance Daniela Procopio would not likely pass for a diva of the Brazilian stage. Petite and with a timid smile, she lacks the commanding presence of pop singer Marisa Monte, who played to packed houses on her recent U.S. tour, never mind the bangles and towering platform shoes that turned pixie Carmen Miranda into a luminous giantess. But when Procopio breaks into song – say, “Quase Lenda,” a duet with celebrated Brazilian showman Carlinhos Brown – and her voice surges from a murmur to a lush, torrential soprano, the doubters might do well to sit up and listen. Though hardly a household name, Procopio, 33, a former industrial designer who took up professional singing only four years ago, has already made a mark in the Brazilian club scene and drawn praise from the country’s musical elite. In addition to Brown, artists such as clarinetist Paulo Moura and guitarist Toninho Horta – not to mention the multiple- Grammy-winning composer and arranger Eumir Deodato - pitched in on her maiden CD, to be launched in the coming months on an independent label. “Daniela’s got drive and a spectacular voice,” says the New Yorkbased Deodato, who has worked for megastars like Roberta Flack, George Benson and Bjork. “Judging by her, you can expect a lot more good things coming out of Brazil.” Newsweek (adapted) What’s Daniela Procopio like, according to the text? She is like Marisa Monte. She turned Carmen Miranda into a diva. She can surely be considered a Brazilian diva at first sight. She?s small, slim and shy. She likes wearing platform shoes.
Cambridge, 13th June 2007 Carpenter’s Cottages Fleet Street Holt, Norfolk WC IPP Dear Sir, I saw your advertisement in today’s newspaper and I am interested in a holiday letting at Carpenter’s Cottages. Please send me some information about the cottages, including the cost for a family of five, with two children, for a fortnight. Is there a price reduction for children under five? Yours faithfully, Samantha Burton The family mentioned in TEXT wishes to stay at Carpenter’s Cottages for: two weeks. a month. one week. ten days. less than a week.
Texto II BRAZIL FLIGHTS CRIPPLED BY STRIKE 01 Airports have resumed flights in Brazil after air traffic controllers suspended a strike called to protest about their working conditions. 05 Government negotiators and trade unions reached an agreement to end the strike, which briefly halted all flights out of all of the country's 49 airports. Action had spread across Brazil after air 10 traffic controllers began a hunger strike in the capital, Brasilia. Thousands of passengers were left stranded by the protest. The striking controllers had said they had 15 lost all confidence in their commanders and the equipment at their disposal. Air traffic controllers in Brazil have staged similar protests since last September, when 154 people were killed in the country's 20 worst air disaster. The BBC's Tim Hirsch in Sao Paulo says internal flights have been in a state of chaos since the crash. Fonte: BBC NEWS, 31 March 2007 – UK Considere as afirmações abaixo. I. Quase todos os principais aeroportos do país foram fechados para decolagens. II. Os vôos foram reduzidos em conseqüência da suspensão da greve dos controladores de tráfego aéreo, convocada para protestar sobre as condições de trabalho. III. A crise no transporte aéreo brasileiro teve seu início com o desastre aéreo que matou 154 pessoas em setembro de 2006. IV. Os controladores em greve anunciaram que confiam em seus superiores e nos equipamentos de trabalho. V. De acordo com o correspondente Tim Hirsch, da BBC em São Paulo, os vôos domésticos estão em estado caótico desde o desastre aéreo. Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. I e II são verdadeiras. I, II e IV são falsas. II, III e V são verdadeiras. III, IV e V são falsas. I, IV e V são verdadeiras.
Inglês - UFG 2010/1 practising his archaic Portuguese. planning strategies to be released. instructing Samuel to help him outside. trying to avoid feeling depressed. thinking about what he had experienced.
Read the text According to the story above Snoopy is feeling down due to the box of cookies he got. the coffee Snoopy is having is likely to make him depressed. although Snoopy is lovely, his girl is surely coming back to him. we can say that Snoopy must not have a liking for coconut. Snoopy realizes that if his girl loved him, she would be sitting and having coffee with him now.
Ao final do texto, a posição do autor diante do tema é demagógica individualista ambígua preconceituosa crítica
According to the text, the process to obtain salt has been mistakenly adapted from old medicine. nearly the same for thousands of years. sometimes described in literary texts. strictly related to agricultural strategies. anything.
“CHILE, which has South America’s most successful economy, elected its first female president this year. But the lot of Chilean women is by many measures worse than that of their sisters elsewhere in the region. A smaller proportion of them work and fewer achieve political power. According to a recent report by the Inter-Parliamentary Union, an association of parliaments, 15% of representatives in the lower house of Chile’s Congress are women, less than half the proportion in Costa Rica and Argentina and below the level in eight other countries in the region, including Venezuela and Bolivia. Chilean women hope that Michelle Bachelet’s presidency will improve their position but there are worries that she will do more harm than good.” The Economist August 12th 2006 According to the text, Chilean women have better work perspectives than other South American women. lag behind women in other South American countries in terms of political power. work hard but don?t get good salaries despite Chile?s economic development. face many obstacles when they have to move to different regions. are taking different measures to overcome their political problems.
O texto informa que os falsificadores atuam na venda de remédios no mercado atacadista. roubam o selo de qualidade da Organização Mundial da Saúde. utilizam placebo nos medicamentos. apresentam-se como representantes oficiais da indústria farmacêutica. estão sempre alertas à demanda do mercado.
Inglês - UFG 2011 Which of the following aspects does Chimamanda Adichie use to describe herself? Age group Food likes Personality type Skin colour Weather preference
The ranks of globalwarming deniers have mostly been forced to concede that the Earth really is getting warmer. 2007 could be a turning point in the effort to control global warming. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, marshaling the research of nearly 1,000 scientists from 74 countries, issued a longawaited report on climate change “impacts, adaptation and vulnerability.” The study found that global warming was already affecting the Earth’s ecosystems; it predicted that continued climate change, in combination with other environmental stressors such as population increases and greater urbanization, would lead to more severe and widespread drought, greater coastal and riverine flooding, and “increased risk of extinction” for 20 to 30 percent of plant and animal species. Depending on how much temperature rises, food production in the temperate regions (including parts of the United States and Canada) could actually increase, but would probably decline in much of the tropics. Newsweek, April 16th, 2007. According to the information in TEXT temperature rises: will increase food production everywhere. could increase food production in some regions. will increase food production in hot countries. will reduce food production in Canada. will certainly not affect food production anywhere.
Inglês - UFG 2010/1 Adam Jones Jake Westbrook Alan Embree Dontrelle Willis Xavier Paul
Leia atentamente o texto abaixo para responder a questão Why Are People Taller Today Than Yesterday? Tuesday, Jul. 08, 2008 By LAURA BLUE – TIME MAGAZINE Skeletons and written records show that human beings today are inches taller than humans just a century or two ago. And yet even today average heights vary among different nationalities, even among genetically homogenous populations, like the South Koreans and North Koreans. (South Koreans are taller.) John Komlos, professor of economics at the University of Munich and a pioneer in studying human well-being through history, explains what governs human height, and why some populations are taller than others. Q: Why are people taller today than yesterday? A: There are two main reasons. One is that the diet has improved considerably. In spite of some very negative aspects of the diet of industrialized populations, we have much better vitamin, mineral and protein intake than 100 or 200 years ago. As a consequence the body can grow much better. In addition, our health has improved considerably along with medical technology. We have fewer endemic diseases, and fewer epidemic diseases. That is important because an incidence of disease usually means that the nutrients we do consume are not absorbed by the body sufficiently. Diseases lay a claim on our energy intake, so that there is not enough left over for the body to grow. These two factors play a considerable role. We have been increasing in height for about 140 years. Prior to that, there were cycles in height, depending on economic circumstances and agricultural productivity and so forth. We were relatively tall in the Middle Ages, when population densities were relatively low and food supplies were still fairly adequate. The low point was in the 17th century. Frenchmen, for example, were about 162 cm on average [not quite 5 ft. 4 in.], which is extremely small. Only since about the middle of the 19th century there has been a general trend upwards. The American population was the tallest in the world from about the American Revolution to World War II — that’s a long time. (There is a genetic component to [population] height, but there is very little genetic difference between European populations or their overseas offshoots.) America had a very resource-rich environment, with game, fish and wildlife. In fact we have data on disadvantaged people in America, such as slaves. They were obviously among the most mistreated populations in the world, but given the resource abundance — and given the fact that the slave owners needed their work — they had to be fed relatively decently. So slaves were taller than European peasants. It’s no wonder that Europeans were just flooding to America. [Americans today are no longer the tallest people in the world.] After the Second World War, many Western and Northern European countries began to adopt certain favorable social policies. There is universal health insurance in most of these societies — that, of course, makes a difference in health care. You can also consider income inequality in America, since people who are at the low end of the totem pole have considerable adversity making ends meet. I suspect the difference [in height between Americans and Europeans] is due to both diet and health care. Americans today suffer from an additional problem: obesity. If children are too well nourished, then they’re not able to grow optimally. There are certain hormones that control the onset of the adolescent growth spurt and the onset of adolescence. Nutrition is one of the factors, along with genetic and hormonal ones, that are associated with the onset of puberty. Overnutrition prior to adolescence may affect the hormonal system and may produce too much growth hormone prior to puberty, so that sex steroids are produced earlier. And if that comes too early, then the youth will peak out sooner, and will not become as tall in adulthood as someone who had better nutrition. Also, the overload of carbohydrates and fats in a fast-food diet may hinder the consumption of micronutrients essential to growth. A relação entre saúde e crescimento do ser humano é: quanto menos doenças a pessoa tiver, melhor é a absorção dos nutrientes pelo corpo e há mais energia para o corpo crescer. doenças endêmicas e epidêmicas são responsáveis pela falta de crescimento dos seres humanos. a incidência de doenças consome todos os nutrientes e energia do ser humano, não permitindo o crescimento adequado do corpo. apesar dos avanços tecnológicos na área médica, a incidência de doenças não tem diminuído, prejudicando, dessa forma, o crescimento dos seres humanos. a saúde não desempenha um papel importante no crescimento do ser humano.
Inglês - UFG 2011 Taking into account this power relationship where one manipulates the other, which statement is related to the person who is being manipulated? He/she uses negativity as a strategy. He/she remains distant and in control. He/she hides behind a guise of love. He/she feels confused and guilty. He/she gains in power over the other one.
Qual ideia depreendida do texto induz a um estilo de vida que pode acelerar o processo de esgotamento dos recursos naturais? The image culture has spread North American social values. The advertising industry tries to atlend basic human needs. Television Keeps reproducing behaviour myths on a massa scale. Happiness and satisfaction means constantly buying possessions. Corporations shoud be concerned with environmental issues.
01 Madeleine McCann's parents return to U.K. Couple, now suspects, deny involvement in disappearance of 4-year-old 05 McCann's father: 'Heartbreaking' return Sept. 9: The parents of missing four-yearold Madeleine McCann have returned to the U.K. after being named suspects in their daughter's disappearance. Watch Gerry 10 McCann's statement to the press upon the family's arrival on British soil. MSNBC:Updated: 10:02 a.m. ET Sept. 9, 2007 CASTLE DONINGTON, England – A 15 British couple named as suspects in the disappearance of their 4-year-old daughter returned to England Sunday, days after being grilled by Portuguese police about new forensic evidence authorities believe 20 ties them to the case. Kate and Gerry McCann, who have strongly denied any involvement in the disappearance of their daughter Madeleine, flew from Faro in southern Portugal with 25 their 2-year-old twins. The father said the couple wanted “to consider the events of the last few days, which have been so deeply disturbing.” “While it is heartbreaking to return to the 30 U.K. without Madeleine, it does not mean we are giving up the search for her,” Gerry McCann said on the airport tarmac in central England. Fonte: www.cnn.com.br Assinale a alternativa em que a tradução da expressão grifada está INCORRETA: Madeleine MacCann´s parents ( linha 1) / ?Os parentes de Madeleine MacCann?. Their daughter´s disappearance ( linhas 8 e 9) / ?o desaparecimento da filha deles?. Gerry MacCann´s statement ( linhas 9 e 10) / ?a declaração de Gerry MacCann?. The family´s arrival (linhas 10 e 11) / ?a chegada da família?. MacCann´s father (linha 5) / ?O pai de Madeleine?.
ELVIS PRESLEY: AN INTIMATE LOOK AT ‘THE KING’ 01 I wouldn’t want to speak for Elvis Presley and tell you that I was his best friend. But I can tell you this: He was my best friend. I met Elvis when I was just a boy and he was a 05 teenager. I met him on one of the last weekends before he became “Elvis,” when he was simply a truck driver who did some singing on the side. I knew him for twenty-three years, and in those years I grew up with him, lived with him, worked 10 for him, learned from him, laughed with him, and shared one amazing experience after another with him. Elvis was the first rock-and-roll superstar; I knew him as a friend. In writing this book my hope has 15 been to present Elvis not as the larger-than-life figure known around the globe, but as, simply, a very real and quite remarkable human. That’s important to me because as Elvis has become an icon and a figure of legend, I think an 20 appreciation of his humanity has been lost. Viewing Elvis as some kind of rock-and-roll superhero doesn’t do justice to his very human struggle, his talent, his life, or his legacy. He was my friend, and this book is, above all, a 25 story of friendship. The book is also a personal history, and, as such, it’s a work of memory. Sifting through six decades’ worth of memories has been no easy task, but wherever possible, efforts have been made to ensure that the 30 “history” part of the personal history is accurate. My life’s history is very much interwoven with Elvis’s, and much of his life has been extensively documented. So, if it was possible to look up or double-check a who, what, when, or where, I’ve 35 done it. Documents don’t often capture the more personal moments of life though, and that’s where memories must be sorted out. In thinking back on my life and experiences, I’ve tried to balance 40 the way I remember things now with the way I might have experienced them at the time. I’ve tried to be as honest as possible about how and why things happened, and have tried to resist the temptation to describe a past I might wish for 45 rather than the one I experienced. http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/14375930/#story Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. Ao escrever o livro sobre Elvis, o autor teve a intenção de: (L 14-23). mostrar o incrível talento musical de Elvis. mostrar o legado de Elvis. mostrar as provas documentais sobre a morte de Elvis. mostrar aspectos da personalidade humana e sensível de Elvis. mostrar aspectos da personalidade inquieta e angustiante de Elvis.
use of metaphors. pessimistic tone. rhyming scheme. allusion to solitude. narrative characteristics.
Leia atentamente o texto abaixo para responder a questão Why Are People Taller Today Than Yesterday? Tuesday, Jul. 08, 2008 By LAURA BLUE – TIME MAGAZINE Skeletons and written records show that human beings today are inches taller than humans just a century or two ago. And yet even today average heights vary among different nationalities, even among genetically homogenous populations, like the South Koreans and North Koreans. (South Koreans are taller.) John Komlos, professor of economics at the University of Munich and a pioneer in studying human well-being through history, explains what governs human height, and why some populations are taller than others. Q: Why are people taller today than yesterday? A: There are two main reasons. One is that the diet has improved considerably. In spite of some very negative aspects of the diet of industrialized populations, we have much better vitamin, mineral and protein intake than 100 or 200 years ago. As a consequence the body can grow much better. In addition, our health has improved considerably along with medical technology. We have fewer endemic diseases, and fewer epidemic diseases. That is important because an incidence of disease usually means that the nutrients we do consume are not absorbed by the body sufficiently. Diseases lay a claim on our energy intake, so that there is not enough left over for the body to grow. These two factors play a considerable role. We have been increasing in height for about 140 years. Prior to that, there were cycles in height, depending on economic circumstances and agricultural productivity and so forth. We were relatively tall in the Middle Ages, when population densities were relatively low and food supplies were still fairly adequate. The low point was in the 17th century. Frenchmen, for example, were about 162 cm on average [not quite 5 ft. 4 in.], which is extremely small. Only since about the middle of the 19th century there has been a general trend upwards. The American population was the tallest in the world from about the American Revolution to World War II — that’s a long time. (There is a genetic component to [population] height, but there is very little genetic difference between European populations or their overseas offshoots.) America had a very resource-rich environment, with game, fish and wildlife. In fact we have data on disadvantaged people in America, such as slaves. They were obviously among the most mistreated populations in the world, but given the resource abundance — and given the fact that the slave owners needed their work — they had to be fed relatively decently. So slaves were taller than European peasants. It’s no wonder that Europeans were just flooding to America. [Americans today are no longer the tallest people in the world.] After the Second World War, many Western and Northern European countries began to adopt certain favorable social policies. There is universal health insurance in most of these societies — that, of course, makes a difference in health care. You can also consider income inequality in America, since people who are at the low end of the totem pole have considerable adversity making ends meet. I suspect the difference [in height between Americans and Europeans] is due to both diet and health care. Americans today suffer from an additional problem: obesity. If children are too well nourished, then they’re not able to grow optimally. There are certain hormones that control the onset of the adolescent growth spurt and the onset of adolescence. Nutrition is one of the factors, along with genetic and hormonal ones, that are associated with the onset of puberty. Overnutrition prior to adolescence may affect the hormonal system and may produce too much growth hormone prior to puberty, so that sex steroids are produced earlier. And if that comes too early, then the youth will peak out sooner, and will not become as tall in adulthood as someone who had better nutrition. Also, the overload of carbohydrates and fats in a fast-food diet may hinder the consumption of micronutrients essential to growth. Com relação ao crescimento dos seres humanos ao longo dos tempos, podemos observar que: na Idade Média, as pessoas cresciam pouco, devido à baixa densidade populacional e aos suprimentos alimentares, que eram muito inadequados. a altura dos seres humanos vem aumentando ao longo dos últimos 140 anos. ao longo dos últimos 140 anos, a altura dos seres humanos vem se alterando em ciclos. a partir aproximadamente da metade do século XIX, houve uma estagnação geral no crescimento dos seres humanos. no século XVII, os seres humanos eram bastante altos para a época, chegando a medir 1 m 62 cm.
Observe a figura a seguir: The picture shows a scene from the book Oliver Twist, by Charles Dickens, which is best described in: ?That boy?s got my handkerchief!? the old gentleman cried. The boy turned and ran. ?Stop thief! Stop thief!? the gentleman shouted. He began to run after the boy. ?No, no, it wasn?t me, sir! It was two other boys, sir!? the poor boy cried. ?The boy is ill!? the old gentleman with gold spectacles cried. ?Stop! That?s not the boy. I saw what happened,? the middle-aged man cried.
HOW MUCH CAN SCHOOLS DO? In the fall of 2005, some 17 months before Cho Seung- Hui went on his killing spree at Virginia Tech, his behavior was so disturbing that his creative-writing professor had him removed from her class. Later that semester, two female students complained separately about what one called his “annoying” advances, and after an acquaintance warned that Cho might be suicidal, he was detained for several hours, evaluated at a local mental-health facility and released. When it comes to the complex intersection of campus safety and mental health, the questions of what counts as sufficient warning signs and how universities should respond to them often end up in court. Move too quickly by, say, suspending a depressed student for posing a threat upon himself or others, and schools can – and do – get sued for discriminating against the disabled. Julie Rawe; Time Magazine, April 30, 2007 O segundo parágrafo do texto propõe medidas a serem tomadas pelas escolas para tratar casos de alunos perturbados. refere a dificuldade que as escolas enfrentam para lidar com alunos problemáticos. descreve por que nada foi feito para evitar as mortes causadas por Cho Seung-Hui na Virginia Tech. analisa as pistas com as quais um assassino em potencial sinaliza sua intenção de matar. utiliza o caso de Cho Seung-Hui para propor que as escolas busquem o apoio da justiça em casos desse tipo.
De acordo com o texto, a autora começou a praticar corrida aos sete anos de idade e nessa época conseguia percorrer 400 metros. pessoas na faixa etária de quarenta anos estão geralmente fora de forma para prática de corrida. a autora começou a praticar corrida porque semrpe sonhou em correr na maratona de Londres. pessoas abaixo de quarenta anos conseguem iniciar a prática da corrida alternando etapas de corrida e de caminhada. corredores na faixa etária de quarenta anos geralemtne sentem falta de ar nos primeiros estágios da corrida.
were finishing an activity. interrupted her many times. did not know English. heard the bell rang. gave her the correct answer.
Leia o excerto do sítio Guardian Jobs. Os serviços desse sítio selecionam os currículos mais simplificados. contratam profissionais da área de publicidade. destacam os melhores anúncios de emprego. destinam-se a desempregados e empregadores. favorecem o ramo de gêneros alimentícios.
“CHILE, which has South America’s most successful economy, elected its first female president this year. But the lot of Chilean women is by many measures worse than that of their sisters elsewhere in the region. A smaller proportion of them work and fewer achieve political power. According to a recent report by the Inter-Parliamentary Union, an association of parliaments, 15% of representatives in the lower house of Chile’s Congress are women, less than half the proportion in Costa Rica and Argentina and below the level in eight other countries in the region, including Venezuela and Bolivia. Chilean women hope that Michelle Bachelet’s presidency will improve their position but there are worries that she will do more harm than good.” The Economist August 12th 2006 According to the text, the Chilean president will fight for significant changes in women?s political participation in the country. has demonstrated political strength in Chile?s Congress since her election. is seen with caution with respect to improvement in women?s position in the country. hopes Chilean women will reach the same level as women in the other South American countries. is worried about the percentage of women?s political participation in Chile.
The ranks of globalwarming deniers have mostly been forced to concede that the Earth really is getting warmer. 2007 could be a turning point in the effort to control global warming. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, marshaling the research of nearly 1,000 scientists from 74 countries, issued a longawaited report on climate change “impacts, adaptation and vulnerability.” The study found that global warming was already affecting the Earth’s ecosystems; it predicted that continued climate change, in combination with other environmental stressors such as population increases and greater urbanization, would lead to more severe and widespread drought, greater coastal and riverine flooding, and “increased risk of extinction” for 20 to 30 percent of plant and animal species. Depending on how much temperature rises, food production in the temperate regions (including parts of the United States and Canada) could actually increase, but would probably decline in much of the tropics. Newsweek, April 16th, 2007. Choose the appropriate title for TEXT: Environmental Stressors Globalisation Food Production Global Warming Population Increases.
Leia atentamente o texto abaixo para responder a questão Why Are People Taller Today Than Yesterday? Tuesday, Jul. 08, 2008 By LAURA BLUE – TIME MAGAZINE Skeletons and written records show that human beings today are inches taller than humans just a century or two ago. And yet even today average heights vary among different nationalities, even among genetically homogenous populations, like the South Koreans and North Koreans. (South Koreans are taller.) John Komlos, professor of economics at the University of Munich and a pioneer in studying human well-being through history, explains what governs human height, and why some populations are taller than others. Q: Why are people taller today than yesterday? A: There are two main reasons. One is that the diet has improved considerably. In spite of some very negative aspects of the diet of industrialized populations, we have much better vitamin, mineral and protein intake than 100 or 200 years ago. As a consequence the body can grow much better. In addition, our health has improved considerably along with medical technology. We have fewer endemic diseases, and fewer epidemic diseases. That is important because an incidence of disease usually means that the nutrients we do consume are not absorbed by the body sufficiently. Diseases lay a claim on our energy intake, so that there is not enough left over for the body to grow. These two factors play a considerable role. We have been increasing in height for about 140 years. Prior to that, there were cycles in height, depending on economic circumstances and agricultural productivity and so forth. We were relatively tall in the Middle Ages, when population densities were relatively low and food supplies were still fairly adequate. The low point was in the 17th century. Frenchmen, for example, were about 162 cm on average [not quite 5 ft. 4 in.], which is extremely small. Only since about the middle of the 19th century there has been a general trend upwards. The American population was the tallest in the world from about the American Revolution to World War II — that’s a long time. (There is a genetic component to [population] height, but there is very little genetic difference between European populations or their overseas offshoots.) America had a very resource-rich environment, with game, fish and wildlife. In fact we have data on disadvantaged people in America, such as slaves. They were obviously among the most mistreated populations in the world, but given the resource abundance — and given the fact that the slave owners needed their work — they had to be fed relatively decently. So slaves were taller than European peasants. It’s no wonder that Europeans were just flooding to America. [Americans today are no longer the tallest people in the world.] After the Second World War, many Western and Northern European countries began to adopt certain favorable social policies. There is universal health insurance in most of these societies — that, of course, makes a difference in health care. You can also consider income inequality in America, since people who are at the low end of the totem pole have considerable adversity making ends meet. I suspect the difference [in height between Americans and Europeans] is due to both diet and health care. Americans today suffer from an additional problem: obesity. If children are too well nourished, then they’re not able to grow optimally. There are certain hormones that control the onset of the adolescent growth spurt and the onset of adolescence. Nutrition is one of the factors, along with genetic and hormonal ones, that are associated with the onset of puberty. Overnutrition prior to adolescence may affect the hormonal system and may produce too much growth hormone prior to puberty, so that sex steroids are produced earlier. And if that comes too early, then the youth will peak out sooner, and will not become as tall in adulthood as someone who had better nutrition. Also, the overload of carbohydrates and fats in a fast-food diet may hinder the consumption of micronutrients essential to growth. Esqueletos e registros escritos demonstram que os seres humanos atualmente são mais baixos do que os seres humanos de um ou dois séculos atrás. os seres humanos alguns séculos atrás eram mais altos do que os seres humanos atuais. os seres humanos hoje são tão altos quanto os seres humanos de um ou dois séculos atrás. os seres humanos atualmente são mais altos do que os seres humanos de um ou dois séculos atrás. os coreanos do norte são mais altos do que os coreanos do sul.
Os vocábulos GROOMING, TRAINING e BOARDING, no texto, têm a mesma função morfológica da palavra grifada em She is cooking dinner tonight. This is a very interesting film. He will be paid according to his abilities. Smoking is bad for your health. You can’t believe anything she says.
http://www.cartoonistgroup.com/store/add.php?iid=1880 - Access: Apr. 2006. The cartoonist wants the reader to believe that Senator Krupt has been paid by the press. has done something wrong. has gained people?s trust. has got a rather unfair trial. none of the alternatives.
Leia o seguinte texto e responda à questão. The narrator thinks he should have appreciated better the language of nature. could speak a special language which is now spread all over the world. misses the countryside where people had time even to talk to plants. regrets the time he used to spend speaking to animals and plants. used to have a relationship with nature which he does not anymore.
Leia o seguinte texto sobre gênero e responda à questão. Since the 1950s, the term gender has been increasingly used to distinguish a social role (gender role) and/or personal identity (gender identity) from biological sex. Sexologist John Money wrote in 1955, “the term gender role is used to signify all those things that a person says or does to disclose himself or herself as having the status of boy or man, girl or woman, respectively. Elements of such a role include clothing, speech patterns, movement and other factors not solely limited to biological sex. Many societies categorize all individuals as either male or female – however, this is not universal. Some societies recognize a third gender – for instance, the Two-Spirit people of some indigenous American peoples, and hijras of India and Pakistan – or even a fourth or fifth. Such categories may be an intermediate state between male and female, a state of sexlessness, or a distinct gender not dependent on male and female gender roles. Joan Roughgarden argues that in some non-human animal species, there can also be said to be more than two genders, in that there might be multiple templates for behavior available to individual organisms with a given biological sex. There is debate over to what extent gender is a social construct and to what extent it is a biological construct. One point of view in the debate is social constructionism, which suggests that gender is entirely a social construct. Contrary to social constructionism is essentialism, which suggests that it is entirely a biological construct. Others’ opinions on the subject lie somewhere in between. Disponível em: . Acesso em: 12 set. 2007. [Adaptado]. Com base nos conceitos discutidos no terceiro parágrafo do texto, o construto gênero expresso na frase de Simone de Beauvoir, “One is not born a woman, one becomes one”, é social. filosófico. essencialista. universal. biológico.
SMALL BRIBES, BIG CHALLENGE Extent and nature of petty corruption in South Africa Although grand corruption like that associated with the arms deal receives most media attention, petty corruption can be as damaging if left unchecked. According to the ISS 2003 National Victims of Crime survey, petty corruption was the second most prevalent crime in the country after housebreaking. Of most concern is that many citizens do not know how to report corruption, do not believe that doing so will change anything, and, despite good whistleblower provisions, are afraid of the consequences if they do report. It should be noted from the outset that many incidents of corruption or attempted corruption were probably not reported to the survey. Some victims may be aware of their perceived ‘complicity’ as the bribe payer (albeit on demand, possibly accompanied with the threat of withholding a service) and would worry that by answering the questions they might implicate themselves. Others may not know that being asked for a bribe in return for a service constitutes a crime, and may instead see this as a ‘normal’ transaction fee required to ensure the delivery of services. Similarly, requests for ‘favours’ and ‘gifts’ may be overlooked as a form of corruption. These acts typically involve the purchase of a cold drink, alcohol or a meal in return for speeding up a service or the efficient delivery of a service. Some members of the public may regard this as an accepted form of gratitude. The view that it would not change anything, and the lack of knowledge about where and how to report (which together represent two thirds of responses) could be addressed in the short term by a sustained awareness campaign by the public service. This should be geared towards informing citizens of why they need to counter corruption, thus popularising a whistleblowing culture, as well as ensuring that people know what channels to use to report (i.e. through national hotlines). A dedicated public education campaign is needed to address the lack of awareness about what constitutes corruption and how to report it. Consensus among the elite will not be enough to stop corrupt practices. Ultimately broad public participation is required to promote a culture of whistleblowing in the public and private sectors, but also to ensure that corruption is prevented in future. Hennie van Vuuren, Institute for Security Studies hvanvuuren@issct.org.za Access: Apr. 2006. (Adapted) The people studied in the survey were counsellors of justice. officers in the police. staff in security firms. victims of illegal acts. none of the alternatives.
Salad Poem (for Henri Rousseau le Douanier) The sun is shining outside Henri Rousseau (Gentil Rousseau) The sky is blue like your skies I want to paint the salad on the table bright crisp green red purple lettuce and radishes, ham and tomatoes Paint them like your jungles Gentle Rousseau I want to paint All things bright and beautiful All salads great and small I want to make Blue skies bluer Green grass greener Pink flowers brighter Like you Henri Rousseau Adrian Henri Which of the following groups of words from TEXT consists only of nouns: make, grass, sun, lettuce, crisp. outside, sun, lettuce, grass, jungles. sun, radish, beautiful, outside, grass. jungles, bright, crisp, radish, lettuce. sun, lettuce, radish, grass, jungles.
Leia o seguinte texto e responda à questão. Qual frase descreve a comunicação do narrador como linguagem não-verbal? Once I spoke the language of the flowers? Once I understood each word the caterpillar said ? Once I smiled in secret at the gossip of the starlings? And shared a conversation with the housefly in my bed. Once I heard and answered all the questions of the crickets?
Coasting on Past Glory The Amazon is still largely intact, but the future hinges on decisions being made now. From the window of a Boeing, few countries are greener than Brazil. Since much of this vast territory in the heart of South America is still unpeopled and unblemished, it’s not surprising that Brazil looks good against the backdrop of a mistreated planet. It ranks 34th of 149 nations in Yale and Columbia’s Environmental Performance Index – greener than Ireland (35th) and the United States (39th). But how long will the country be able to hold on to this favorable score? To get a better look, you have to go to 9,000 meters, the altitude from which the NASA remote-sensing satellites sweep the earth. Every year, scientists at Brazil’s National Institute for Space Research (INPE) pore over satellite images to produce the most detailed survey of deforestation of any nation in the world. Such candor has won Brazil kudos, but also criticism. Brazil is the fourth biggest contributor of greenhouse gases globally, of which 75 percent comes from the felling and burning of forests. So when data released by INPE in late May showed that 5,850 square kilometers of forest (an area larger than Brunei) had disappeared from August 2007 to April 2008 – a 17 percent spike from the year before – the planet took notice. “Brazil has a fantastic endowment from nature but is failing when it comes to managing it,” says Judicael Clevelario Junior, head of environmental studies at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), the census bureau. Brazil’s green laurels are not an illusion. Four fifths of its electric power comes from hydroelectric plants. It is the world leader in biofuels – nearly 30 percent of its cars run on ethanol. The trouble is that these virtues reflect sound decisions made in the 1970s, during the ambitious military government of Gen. Ernesto Geisel. Brazil has not always followed them up. (…) Fortunately, Brazil has options. Its booming economy is not beholden to coal-fired power plants, and the rain forest is still largely intact. “Brazil has a rare opportunity to transform itself into a rich country and still maintain its natural capital,” says Clevelario Jr. If it can go back to its old habit of making the right environmental moves. (Newsweek, July 14th 2008, http://www.newsweek.com/id/143696) Indique a alternativa que completa a sentença: If Brazil ................ back to its old habit of making the right environmental moves, it ................ good results. goes ... would reach had gone ... will reach went ... would reach went ... will reach goes ... would have reached
Japanese researchers have spent five years developing a humanoid robot system that can understand and respond to simultaneous speakers. They posit a restaurant scenario in which the robot is a waiter. When three people stand before the robot and simultaneously order pork cutlet meals or French dinners, the robot understands at about 70 percent comprehension, responding by repeating each order and giving the total price. This process takes less than two seconds and, crucially, requires no prior voice training. Such auditory powers mark a fundamental challenge in artificial intelligence – how to teach machines to pick out significant sounds amid the hubbub. This is known as the cocktail party effect, and most machines do not do any better than humans who have had a few too many martinis. Scientific American, August 2007. Segundo o texto, num cenário de restaurante, o robô serve a mesa e escolhe os pratos para os clientes. anota pedidos e prepara a comida. organiza o funcionamento do restaurante. lê o cardápio em voz alta e dá sugestão de pratos. repete os pedidos feitos e informa o valor da refeição.
Afirma-se, no texto, que a Irlanda negocia com a China o desenvolvimento de um parque industrial que trará benefícios à Europa e à própria China. Possui um plano de desenvolvimento que exime os investidores de pagamento de impostos. enfrenta sérios problemas de desemprego, que já afetaram dez mil trabalhadores. deseja fechar acordos que envolvam outros países da União Europeia. planeja as mudanças que pretende implementar junto à Câmara Real de Negócios Internacionais, em Londres.
Read the text: The text states that charity groups make seniors and sick people reuse their own old electronics in order to spend time doing something useful. Americans are currently having a hard time getting rid of their old stuff. unless you donate more recent models, you won?t have a discount. official recyclers can always pick up your unwanted machines for free. toxic substances leaking
Leia o seguinte trecho de um diálogo entre os irmãos Biff e Happy, personagens da peça Death of a Salesman, de Arthur Miller, e responda à questão. BIFF: I’m thirty-four years old, I oughta be makin’ my future. That’s when I come running home. And now, I get here, and I don’t know what to do with myself. [After a pause] I’ve always made a point of not wasting my life, and everytime I come back here I know that all I’ve done is to waste my life. HAPPY: You’re a poet, you know that, Biff? You’re a – you’re an idealist! BIFF: No, I’m mixed up very bad. Maybe I oughta get married. Maybe I oughta get stuck into something. Maybe that’s my trouble. I’m like a boy. I’m not married, I’m not in business, I just – I’m like a boy. Are you content, Hap? You’re a success, aren’t you? Are you content? HAPPY: Hell, no! BIFF: Why? You’re making money, aren’t you? HAPPY: [moving about with energy, expressiveness]: All I can do now is wait for the merchandise manager to die. MILLER, A. Death of a Salesman. London: Penguin, 1962. p. 16-17. Biff is emotionally confused between the opposite ideas of making his future or wasting his life. The discussion between the brothers shows that Biff can waste his life if he comes home. is realistic. keeps single. is in business. makes money.
Which of the following opinions is in favour of national stereotypes? "National stereotypes are dangerous because they may provoke racial prejudice." "National stereotypes are predictions based on incomplete information about their culture, race, religion, orethnicity." "National stereotypes are misleading and reduce nationalities to a rigid, inflexible image." "National stereotypes are harmless sorts of jokes we tell about other nationalities or groups of people." "National stereotypes are a form of blind categorization that leads to false assumptions about peoples."
HOW MUCH CAN SCHOOLS DO? In the fall of 2005, some 17 months before Cho Seung- Hui went on his killing spree at Virginia Tech, his behavior was so disturbing that his creative-writing professor had him removed from her class. Later that semester, two female students complained separately about what one called his “annoying” advances, and after an acquaintance warned that Cho might be suicidal, he was detained for several hours, evaluated at a local mental-health facility and released. When it comes to the complex intersection of campus safety and mental health, the questions of what counts as sufficient warning signs and how universities should respond to them often end up in court. Move too quickly by, say, suspending a depressed student for posing a threat upon himself or others, and schools can – and do – get sued for discriminating against the disabled. Julie Rawe; Time Magazine, April 30, 2007 According to the text, the word “spree” can be defined as the process of being saved from danger or harm. a short period of time spent doing only one activity. a sensitive and careful way of dealing with a difficult situation. the way of being treated by another person. the state of being in charge of something and making sure that it happens.
Read the text: According to the text, Brazil and Canada are the only countries where prices have not gone up in the past few years. although inflation in Brazil is low, it still annoys people in charge of financial issues there. Brazil is an island where investors dream of living one day food and fuel prices are under control in unprecedented global markets emerging markets have to go through a debilitating period in order to start feeling changes in the near future.
Segundo o texto para conter a venda de medicamentos falsificados, a Organização Mundial da Saúde estimula a venda promocional de medicamentos importantes sempre que necessário. coordena o trabalho de uma organização que acompanha o fornecimento de remédios no mercado farmacêutico, alertando para possíveis irregularidades. exige que todos os medicamentos exibam o holograma da organização e o código de barras. conrola o lançamento de novos medicamentos no mercado, a exemplo do Tamiflu. autoriza apenas a comercialização de medicamentos que passaram pelo crivo das agências sanitária internacionais.
Texto I CALL FOR BRAZIL ABORTION DEBATE 01 Many abortions take place in illegal clinics, putting women’s lives at risk 04 The newly-appointed minister of health in Brazil has called for a wide-ranging debate on the issue of abortion 07 Under present law, abortion is only permitted when the life of the mother is at risk, or in the case of rape. The minister, 10 Jose Gomes Temporao, said in a newspaper interview he wanted to move the issue on from religious and moral contexts to a matter of health. But his remarks are thought certain to prompt a 15 firm response from the Roman Catholic Church in Brazil. 'Superficial' debate Mr Temporao says that around 200,000 women are treated for complications 20 following abortions every year, the vast majority of them believed to have taken place in illegal clinics involving a high degree of risk for the women. An opinion poll released at the weekend 25 suggests 65% of Brazilians are against changing the existing law. Mr Temporao says that result is not surprising as he believes the question has always been debated in a superficial way. 30 He told the newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo he wants Brazil to treat the discussion as a matter of public health. But there are already signs the minister can expect a vigorous response from the 35 Catholic Church, which is preparing for the arrival of Pope Benedict next month. On Friday the Archbishop of Rio de Janeiro, Cardinal Eusebio Oscar Scheid, interrupted an Easter passion play in the 40 city, walking on stage to tell the 10,000 strong audience that the massacre of innocents could not be allowed. While the Brazilian government has no official position on a referendum, it seems likely that debate on the issue will increase in the months ahead. Fonte: BBC News Monday, 9 April 2007, UK. Considere as afirmações abaixo. I- Na opinião do Ministro, o debate sobre o aborto sempre foi tratado exaustivamente. II- A maioria dos brasileiros é contra a legalização do aborto. III- Apenas 35% dos brasileiros são favoráveis à mudança da legislação atual referente ao aborto. IV- O ministro pretende deslocar a discussão sobre o aborto do campo moral e religioso para o campo da saúde pública. V- O jornal Folha de São Paulo considera que o Brasil trata a questão do aborto como um assunto religioso. Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. II e V são verdadeiras. I, III e V são falsas. II, IV e V são verdadeiras. II, III e IV são verdadeiras. I, II e V são falsas.
HARRY POTTER IS BETTER KNOWN IN US THAN BLAIR 01 More Americans know who Harry Potter is than can name Tony Blair, according to a survey by Zogby International. Some 57% identified the teenage wizard but just 50% 05 could say who Britain's leader was. The poll, commissioned by producers of an interactive reality game show based on pop culture, found that while 77% could name two of Snow White's seven dwarfs only 24% 10 could identify two supreme court judges. Robert Thompson, of the Bleier Centre for Television and Popular Culture, said the findings showed how effectively popular culture information is communicated. http://books.guardian.co.uk/news/articles/0,,1851139,00.html Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. A maioria dos americanos desconhece Harry Potter e Tony Blair. A maioria dos americanos conhece Harry Potter e não sabe o nome do primeiro Ministro Britânico. A maioria dos americanos sabe os nomes dos personagens da cultura popular mais do que os nomes dos políticos do seu país. 77% dos americanos conhecem os nomes dos juízes do seu país. Resultados mostraram que a cultura popular é repassada pelos antepassados de uma forma verdadeira.
Inglês - UFG 2010/1 O autor do texto mostra-se preocupado com a quantidade de informação disponibilizada. veiculação de conteúdos inadequados na internet. formação da personalidade dos adolescentes. linguagem utilizada pelos internautas. limitada capacidade de expressão dos jovens.
Read the cartoon. Scientists think that the cause of ageing is oxygen. Which of the statements in the sequence below emphasizes ageing according to what is mentioned in the cartoon? Part of the oxygen we breathe does not convert proteins into energy. The remaining oxygen which does not produce energy is converted into free radicals. Free radicals destroy molecules which can cause damage and produce wrinkles. Free radicals can also result in conditions such as Alzheimer?s Disease. Hormones are not available to neutralize free radicals yet.
Assinale a alternativa correta. A autora do texto se considera uma pessoa relaxada e indiferente em relação à prática de esportes. O texto apresenta o depoimento de uma corredora que iniciou sua prática nesse esporte porque se sentia fora de forma. A autora do texto se exercitou seriamente durante vinte anos para poder participar da maratona de Londres. O texto apresenta argumentos contrários à prática da corrida por pessoas na faixa etária acima dos quarenta anos. De acordo com o texto, a prática de exercícios por vinte anos causa, especialemtne nas mulheres, dores crônicas e falta de ar.
Inglês - UFG 2011 According to Chimamanda Adichie, “The single story creates stereotypes. And the problem with stereotypes is not that they are untrue, but that they are incomplete. They make one story become the only story”. Which of these statements is a stereotype about Nigeria? Nigerian people have a primitive way of living. Nigeria is th most populous country in Africa. English is th main language of Nigeria. Nigeria is an important centre for biodiversity. The majority of th Nigerian population is black.
Pssst. Want to Know a Secret? 01 Aug. 21, 2006 - A women's deodorant company recently launched a major promotional campaign that encourages women to "Share your Secret." In national 05 TV ads and on outdoor billboards—including one in New York's Times Square—women are being applauded for their candid revelations of long-buried shames and thrills. "M" finally unburdens herself about her 20- 10 year struggle with bulimia, while Donna fesses up that she has slept with 70 men, not the mere four she told her husband. Wendy has had both her nipples pierced for a year 14 and nobody knows. http://society.guardian.co.uk/health/story/0,,1722885,00.html Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. As formas verbais ?launched? (L2) e ?applauded? (L7) são verbos regulares e estão no ?simple past tense?. ?including? (L5) é um verbo no presente contínuo. O apostrofo ?s? (L6) indica a forma contrata do verbo ?to be? para a terceira pessoa do singular. ?struggle? (L10) significa estrangular em português. O artigo definido ?a? (L1) faz referência à palavra ?women? (L1).
Maya Angelou is hailed as one of the great voices of American literature and as a remarkable Renaissance woman. Being a poet, educator, historian, best-selling author, actress, playwright, civil-rights activist, producer and director, Dr. Angelou continues to travel the world making appearances, and spreading her legendary wisdom. Born April 4, 1928 in Saint Louis, Missouri, Maya Angelou`s given name was Marguerite Johnson. In her early twenties she was given the name Maya Angelou after her debut performance as a dancer at the Purple Onion Cabaret. The author`s father, Bailey Johnson, was a naval dietician, and her mother was Vivian Johnson. She has one sibling, a brother named Bailey after their father. When she was about three years old, their parents divorced and the children were sent to live with their grandmother in Stamps, Arkansas. Angelou claims that her grandmother, whom she called “momma”, had a deep-brooding love that hung over everything she touched. Growing up in Stamps, Angelou learned what it was like to be a black girl in a world whose boundaries were set by whites. She learned what it meant to have to wear old hand-me-downs from a white woman. And she also learned the humiliation of being refused treatment by a white dentist. As a child, she always dreamed of waking to find her “nappy black hair” metamorphosed to a long blond bob, because she felt life was better for a white girl than for a black girl. Despite the odds, her grandmother instilled pride in Angelou with religion as an important element in their home. After five years of being apart from their mother, the children were sent back to Saint Louis to be with her. This move eventually took a turn for the worst, when Angelou was raped by her mother`s boyfriend. The devastating act of violence committed against her caused her to become mute for nearly five years. She was sent back to Stamps because no one could handle the grim state Angelou was in. With the constant help of a woman named Mrs. Flowers, Angelou began to evolve into the young girl who had possessed the pride and confidence she once had. Again in 1940, her brother and her were sent to San Francisco to live with their mother. Life with her mother was a constant disorder. Living with her mother soon became too much for her, so she ran away to be with her father and his girlfriend in their rundown trailer. Finding that life with him was no better, she ended up living in a graveyard of wrecked cars that mainly housed homeless children. It took her a month to get back home to her mother. Angelou`s dysfunctional childhood, spent moving back and forth between her mother and grandmother, caused her to struggle with maturity. She became determined to prove she was a woman and began to rush toward maturity. Angelou soon found herself pregnant, and at the age of sixteen she delivered her son,Guy. (http:voices.cla.umn.edu vg) According to the text: At the time Angelou lived with her grandmother, she did not face discrimination. Angelou`s grandmother was a very affectionate woman. Angelou disliked her grandmother because she used to be quite violent. Maya Angelou used to call her grandmother ?momma? because her mother Vivian had died. Angelou`s grandmother taught her the importance of being a famous dancer.
Political corruption From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia In broad terms, political corruption is the misuse of public (governmental) power for illegitimate, usually secret, private advantage. All forms of government are susceptible to political corruption. Forms of corruption vary, but the most common are patronage, bribery, extortion, influence peddling, fraud, embezzlement, and nepotism. While corruption often facilitates criminal enterprise such as drug trafficking, money laundering, and criminal prostitution, it is not restricted to these organized crime activities, and it does not always support or shield other crimes. What constitutes corruption differs depending on the country or jurisdiction. Certain political funding practices that are legal in one place may be illegal in another. In some countries, police and prosecutors have broad discretion over who to arrest and charge, and the line between discretion and corruption can be difficult to draw, as in racial profiling. In countries with strong interest group politics, practices that could easily constitute corruption elsewhere are sometimes sanctified as official group preferences. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_corruption#Bribery:_Bribe-takers_ and_bribe-givers Access: Apr. 2006.(Adapted) A map was included in the text in order to show that corruption is a long banned enterprise. government top secret. few nations? problem. worldwide phenomenon. none of the alternatives.
Learning How to Behave Most people are unaware they possess a quite remarkable skill, which is usually overlooked because it is exercised daily, and in the most ordinary contexts. But without it, our lives would be unfulfilled and empty. It is the ability to relate to others, to encourage them in conversation, to operate as social and sociable individuals and to develop both shortterm and long-term relationships ___(1)___. We are not born with this ability. There is nothing wired into the human brain that provides us with set responses to social situations. To perform effectively in a world ___(2)___, encounters and relationships, we have to learn what to do. Small babies, as any parent will remember, are among the least sociable beings ___(3)___. They are totally demanding, utterly selfish and scream with rage if their every whim is not immediately satisfied. Somehow this unlikely raw material is transformed over the years into a being which relies for its survival on being able to form reciprocal bonds with others and to follow complex rules ___(4)___. The monstrous infant becomes the caring, responsible adult whose life experiences revolve around both the joys and pains, the giving and receiving, of friendships and other relationships. It is this remarkable transformation which is the central characteristic of being human. The blanks 1, 2, 3, and 4 complement each other with the following sentences: I. that govern every aspect of its social life. II. that relies so heavily on social interaction. III. that you could imagine. IV. which lies at the heart of our very existence as human beings. Choose the alternative that corresponds to the sequence obtained in the association above: IV ? II ? III ? I II ? I ? III ? IV I ? II ? III ? IV III ? I ? IV ? II IV ? I ? III ? II
PUC-RS-2007/02) GLOBAL WARMING On Feb. 2, 2007, the United Nations scientific panel studying climate change declared that the evidence of a warming trend is “unequivocal”, and that human activity has “very likely” been the driving force in that change over the last 50 years. The last report by the group, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in 2001, had found that humanity had “likely” played a role. The greenhouse effect has been part of the earth’s workings since its earliest days. Gases like carbon dioxide and methane allow sunlight to reach the earth, but prevent some of the resulting heat from radiating back out into space. Without the greenhouse effect, the planet would never have warmed enough to allow life to form. But as ever larger amounts of carbon dioxide have been released along with the development of industrial economies, the atmosphere has grown warmer at an accelerating rate. Since 1970, temperatures have gone up at nearly three times the average for the 20th century. Global Warming Science - The New York Times, May 6, 2007 The best translation for the extract “the United Nations scientific panel studying climate change” is: o painel de estudos climáticos de mudanças científicas das Nações Unidas as mudanças climáticas estudadas pelo painel científico das Nações Unidas o grupo de cientistas das Nações Unidas que estuda as mudanças climáticas os estudos de mudanças climáticas do grupo científico das Nações Unidas as Nações Unidas estudam o painel científico das mudanças climáticas
The myth your body is not good enough could be represented by someone described as attractive fit out-of-shape slim good-looking
http://www.cartoonistgroup.com/store/add.php?iid=10842 - Access: Apr. 2006. The speaker in the cartoon wants to say that it is all right to favour his beloved ones. get people to do his work. show us how to be smart. take friends out of business. none of the alternatives.
SAVING THE WORLD IS WITHIN OUR GRASP By Bill Gates Last year my wife, Melinda, and I visited an AIDS clinic in Durban, South Africa. We met women who walked miles from nearby townships. When they arrived, they were greeted by a well-trained staff. There was an ample supply of antiretroviral drugs, which can help people with AIDS stay healthy for years. Patients were receiving counseling. As we chatted with one of the doctors in the clinic, it struck me: something was fundamentally different. Nearly a decade ago, when Melinda and I started our foundation, we would go to sub-Saharan Africa or developing countries in other regions and see health workers struggling with broken equipment and empty medicine chests. We walked down dirty hallways packed with exhausted mothers holding sick children. (…) But that’s starting to change. Today governments, aid groups and communities are simply refusing to accept the notion that diseases like malaria and tuberculosis will haunt us forever. The evidence is in: these problems can be solved. The world can point to a number of victories already. Smallpox is gone, of course, and polio nearly so. Thanks to the leadership of the Carter Center, we’ve virtually eliminated guinea-worm disease, an excruciatingly painful parasite that is ingested with tainted water. There are new treatments available for visceral leishmaniasis, also called black fever, which is second only to malaria as the world’s deadliest parasite killer. […] Some lifesaving solutions can be extremely simple – iodized salt to prevent stunted growth, for example, or oral rehydration solutions to fight diarrhea. Consider that one of the easiest ways to cut down on infant mortality is to keep babies warm and dry. Earlier this year, Save the Children recruited knitters through the internet to knit and crochet 280,000 caps for infants. Other solutions will arise from pioneering research now underway. Researchers are hard at work developing vaccines that don’t need refrigeration or needles, which could make it easier and cheaper to deliver immunization in poor countries. Scientists are making important progress on new tools, like microbicide gels, to help women protect themselves against HIV. And clinical trials around the world are now testing what may be the greatest scientific breakthroughs of our time: vaccines for malaria, Tb and AIDS. (…) At the same time, I’m amazed by the work of the Nothing But Nets campaign, which has managed through Web-based marketing to raise $13 million – mostly from young people – for insecticide-treated bed nets. I believe we stand at a moment of unequaled opportunity. Governments must now step up to the plate with more money – wisely targeted – to expand effective global health programs to reach all those in need. Businesses, community groups and individuals all play a role as well. When Melinda and I visited that PEPFAR clinic in South Africa, we were thrilled to see the progress we’ve made against one deadly disease. I’m now more convinced than ever that we can create a healthier world for everyone. From: NEWSWEEK, OCTOBER 1, 2007 One of the optimistic messages in the article is that new treatments for malaria will be available in 2008. ?Save the Children? raised $1 billion to buy vaccines for children. the old notion that certain diseases will haunt us forever no longer exists. the Nothing but Nets campaign has saved 3,000 lives. n.d.a.
Leia os textos abaixo para responder a questão: Brazilian ethanol is not causing deforestation Ethanol production in Brazil is not causing deforestation in the Amazon region, says Peter Zuurbier, Associate Professor and Director of the Latin America Office of Wageningen University, the world’s leading center of expertise on tropical agriculture. According to him, the notion often held by NGO’s that sugarcane is displacing cattle and soybean production into the Amazon is inaccurate. “The real problem lies in illegal deforestation and lack of property rights, as around 50 percent of the Amazon region has disputed titles and this is an invitation for timber companies,” he says. Prof. Zuurbier tries to explain a dynamic process between illegal activities in the Amazon rainforest and the expansion of agricultural lands towards that region. NGO’s often state that sugarcane production is displacing cattle and soybean production towards and into the Amazon, burning down the area to make it suitable for agriculture and pastures. According to Zuurbier, however, the process is slightly different. “Well organized groups and corporations with questionable land titles, but also official land owners began to chop down large acreages of forest to trade timber, both legally and illegally,” he says. “Usually, after the empty strips of land were abandoned, cattle owners would move into these cheap lands. However, after 3 to 4 years of cattle breeding, the thin soil of the Amazon is completely useless without any form of fertilization and livestock owners usually move into the next abandoned area. Soybean farmers meanwhile replace the livestock in these areas, recognizing the opportunity to fertilize the area for soybean production.” Prof. Zuurbier says the cause of deforestation and agricultural production in or near the Amazon, is simply illegal deforestation itself. According to him, the fact that Brazil still has questionable land titles, no set-aside policy and great difficulty to enforce existing laws to counter illegal timber trade, are the real reasons why the Amazon rainforest is in danger. (Ethanol Statistics - January 21st 2008, http://www.sucre-ethique.org/ Wageningen-expert-Brazilian) Coasting on Past Glory The Amazon is still largely intact, but the future hinges on decisions being made now. From the window of a Boeing, few countries are greener than Brazil. Since much of this vast territory in the heart of South America is still unpeopled and unblemished, it’s not surprising that Brazil looks good against the backdrop of a mistreated planet. It ranks 34th of 149 nations in Yale and Columbia’s Environmental Performance Index – greener than Ireland (35th) and the United States (39th). But how long will the country be able to hold on to this favorable score? To get a better look, you have to go to 9,000 meters, the altitude from which the NASA remote-sensing satellites sweep the earth. Every year, scientists at Brazil’s National Institute for Space Research (INPE) pore over satellite images to produce the most detailed survey of deforestation of any nation in the world. Such candor has won Brazil kudos, but also criticism. Brazil is the fourth biggest contributor of greenhouse gases globally, of which 75 percent comes from the felling and burning of forests. So when data released by INPE in late May showed that 5,850 square kilometers of forest (an area larger than Brunei) had disappeared from August 2007 to April 2008 – a 17 percent spike from the year before – the planet took notice. “Brazil has a fantastic endowment from nature but is failing when it comes to managing it,” says Judicael Clevelario Junior, head of environmental studies at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), the census bureau. Brazil’s green laurels are not an illusion. Four fifths of its electric power comes from hydroelectric plants. It is the world leader in biofuels – nearly 30 percent of its cars run on ethanol. The trouble is that these virtues reflect sound decisions made in the 1970s, during the ambitious military government of Gen. Ernesto Geisel. Brazil has not always followed them up. (…) Fortunately, Brazil has options. Its booming economy is not beholden to coal-fired power plants, and the rain forest is still largely intact. “Brazil has a rare opportunity to transform itself into a rich country and still maintain its natural capital,” says Clevelario Jr. If it can go back to its old habit of making the right environmental moves. (Newsweek, July 14th 2008, http://www.newsweek.com/id/143696) De acordo com os dois textos, é possível afirmar que: as áreas verdes ainda existentes mantêm o Brasil emuma situação invejável em relação a vários outros países, mesmo se continuarmos a desmatar a Amazônia para intensificar o plantio de cana-de-açúcar e soja. o desmatamento da Amazônia é preocupante pois, além de gerar problemas internos de ordem econômica, política e social, por exemplo, também contribui para agravar a situação ambiental do planeta. como temos desmatado grandes áreas da floresta Amazônica para desenvolvimento da agricultura, nossas plantações têm sido responsabilizadas por especialistas internacionais pela geração de 75% dos gases que provocam o efeito estufa global. o Brasil tem encontrado um ótimo equilíbrio ambiental ao aproveitar as áreas desmatadas para a expansão da lavoura. Para mantê-lo, contudo, é necessária a adoção de políticas que controlem o desmatamento e a agricultura. a grande preocupação ambiental de especialistas da NASA e das universidades de Yale e Colúmbia reside no fato de que o Brasil possui muito mais áreas verdes do que os Estados Unidos e que, portanto, pode desenvolver mais a sua agricultura.
Political corruption From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia In broad terms, political corruption is the misuse of public (governmental) power for illegitimate, usually secret, private advantage. All forms of government are susceptible to political corruption. Forms of corruption vary, but the most common are patronage, bribery, extortion, influence peddling, fraud, embezzlement, and nepotism. While corruption often facilitates criminal enterprise such as drug trafficking, money laundering, and criminal prostitution, it is not restricted to these organized crime activities, and it does not always support or shield other crimes. What constitutes corruption differs depending on the country or jurisdiction. Certain political funding practices that are legal in one place may be illegal in another. In some countries, police and prosecutors have broad discretion over who to arrest and charge, and the line between discretion and corruption can be difficult to draw, as in racial profiling. In countries with strong interest group politics, practices that could easily constitute corruption elsewhere are sometimes sanctified as official group preferences. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_corruption#Bribery:_Bribe-takers_ and_bribe-givers Access: Apr. 2006.(Adapted) “Racial profiling” (line 13) is mentioned in the text as a kind of practice difficult to categorize. impossible to fight. resultant from arrest. seen as corruption. none of the alternatives.
Salad Poem (for Henri Rousseau le Douanier) The sun is shining outside Henri Rousseau (Gentil Rousseau) The sky is blue like your skies I want to paint the salad on the table bright crisp green red purple lettuce and radishes, ham and tomatoes Paint them like your jungles Gentle Rousseau I want to paint All things bright and beautiful All salads great and small I want to make Blue skies bluer Green grass greener Pink flowers brighter Like you Henri Rousseau Adrian Henri The speaker in TEXT expresses: his desire to make a tasty dish. his contempt for the simple things of life. an appreciation of the beauty of simple things. his love of cooking. his hatred for Henri Rousseau.
Vocabulário: Puts down: deprecia bigotry: intolerância stand up against: lutar contra scapegoating: acusações injustas No texto, afirma-se que "é preciso coragem para se opor a essas piadas [...]". Você estaria se opondo a uma piada se disesse: "That's a real good one!" "Am I supposed to laygh?" "I'll tell you a better one." "I'll write that down." "It's the best i've ever heard."
ENVIRONMENT-BRAZIL: The Amazon Jungle as Vast Savannah Mario Osava - IPS/IFEJ RIO DE JANEIRO, Apr 10 (IPS) - An Amazon region that is less lush, where the forest will be replaced by grasslands, is the image drawn by the latest scientific reports in which meteorologists are taking the lead, going beyond even the direst warning of ecologists. If current trends continue, deforestation, which in the last 30 years claimed nearly 600,000 square kilometres in the Brazilian Amazon alone -- an area equivalent to Germany and Italy combined -- will have destroyed more than 30 percent of the jungle by 2050, according to the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). This process could "convert into savannah" as much as 60 percent of the Amazon region, says a 2003 study by Carlos Nobre and Marcos Oyama, of Brazil's National Institute of Space Research (INPE). Global warming "will greatly amplify" those effects, says the IPCC in the second volume of its 2007 report. Average temperatures in the Amazon region could rise an average of 8 degrees Celsius by the end of the century if the climate change factors continue, says meteorologist José Antonio Marengo, in a report presented to Brazil's Environment Ministry in February. In some areas, the average temperature could increase as much as 12 degrees, said Philip Fearnside, a U.S. ecologist and Amazon expert who for the last 30 years has been working with Brazil's National Institute for Amazonian Research, INPA. This will happen if nothing is done to contain deforestation or global climate change, he added. Warmer temperatures mean that trees consume more water to carry out photosynthesis, which is why it has such a big effect on forests. But climate change's great threat to the Amazon is that it could generate a permanent El Niño phenomenon (a now cyclical warming of surface waters in the Pacific Ocean), manifested in more heat and longer periods of scant rains north of the Amazon River, says Fearnside, also a contributor of the IPCC report. That was the case in 1997-1998, when drought triggered devastating fires in the northern Brazilian state of Roraima. And in 2006, a moderate El Niño greatly curbed rainfall along the Rio Negro, a main tributary of the Amazon River. Fonte: www.ipsnews.net/print.asp?idnews=37288. Adaptado. O trecho do primeiro parágrafo -- the forest will be replaced by grassland -- significa o Grasslands could be substituted for rainforest. There are forests as well as grasslands. There will be grasslands instead of forest. There will be no grasslands anymore, just forest. Neither forests nor grasslands will exist anymore.
The aim of this picture story is to denounce a serious social situation. make children take action. convince women to get divorced. persuade men to stop drinking. show that alcoholic men need help.
2011/2 O parágrafo que melhor se encaixaria na sequência do texto, como um parágrafo adicional, seria If you are over 40 you should not attempt to start jogging because you will probably not be able to run any marathon in your life. Running is an appropriate sport for athletes and young people but not for you. Over 40s should begin by making a vigorous walk of at least three kilometers part of their daily routine. When you can do this comfortably you can start the mixed jogging and walking routine and progress from there. Over 40s must begin by making a vigorous walk of at least one kilometer part of their routine. If you can walk comfortably you should probably not be able to mix jogging and walking. I advise you not to practice jogging or walking if you dream about running the London Marathon. Running is an appropriate sport for athletes but not for you. If you are over 40 maybe you should not attempt to jog until you have gone through medical examination. And to alternate jogging and running might also be a suggestion for a successful start.
Two in every three people on the planet–some 4 billion in total–are “excluded from the rule of law.” In many cases, this begins with the lack of official recognition of their birth: around 40% of the developing world’s five-yearold children are not registered as even existing. Later, people will find that the home they live in, the land they farm, or the business that they start, is not protected by legally enforceable property rights. Even in the rare cases when they can afford to go to court, the service is poor. India, for example, has only 11 judges for every 1million people. These alarming statistics are contained in a report from a commission on the legal empowerment of the poor, released on June 3rd at the United Nations. It argues that not only are such statistics evidence of grave injustice, they also reflect one of the main reasons why so much of humanity remains mired in poverty. Because they are outside the rule of law, the vast majority of poor people are obliged to work (if they work at all) in the informal economy, which is less productive than the formal, legal part of the economy. The Economist, June 7th 2008. De acordo com o texto, dois terços da população mundial vivem à margem da lei. quarenta por cento dos recém-nascidos no mundo não são registrados. o comércio em países em desenvolvimento é rigidamente regulado. casos de posse ilegal de terra são combatidos pelos governos de países pobres. os cidadãos de países em desenvolvimento esperam muito tempo para obter documentos pessoais.
SAVING THE WORLD IS WITHIN OUR GRASP By Bill Gates Last year my wife, Melinda, and I visited an AIDS clinic in Durban, South Africa. We met women who walked miles from nearby townships. When they arrived, they were greeted by a well-trained staff. There was an ample supply of antiretroviral drugs, which can help people with AIDS stay healthy for years. Patients were receiving counseling. As we chatted with one of the doctors in the clinic, it struck me: something was fundamentally different. Nearly a decade ago, when Melinda and I started our foundation, we would go to sub-Saharan Africa or developing countries in other regions and see health workers struggling with broken equipment and empty medicine chests. We walked down dirty hallways packed with exhausted mothers holding sick children. (…) But that’s starting to change. Today governments, aid groups and communities are simply refusing to accept the notion that diseases like malaria and tuberculosis will haunt us forever. The evidence is in: these problems can be solved. The world can point to a number of victories already. Smallpox is gone, of course, and polio nearly so. Thanks to the leadership of the Carter Center, we’ve virtually eliminated guinea-worm disease, an excruciatingly painful parasite that is ingested with tainted water. There are new treatments available for visceral leishmaniasis, also called black fever, which is second only to malaria as the world’s deadliest parasite killer. […] Some lifesaving solutions can be extremely simple – iodized salt to prevent stunted growth, for example, or oral rehydration solutions to fight diarrhea. Consider that one of the easiest ways to cut down on infant mortality is to keep babies warm and dry. Earlier this year, Save the Children recruited knitters through the internet to knit and crochet 280,000 caps for infants. Other solutions will arise from pioneering research now underway. Researchers are hard at work developing vaccines that don’t need refrigeration or needles, which could make it easier and cheaper to deliver immunization in poor countries. Scientists are making important progress on new tools, like microbicide gels, to help women protect themselves against HIV. And clinical trials around the world are now testing what may be the greatest scientific breakthroughs of our time: vaccines for malaria, Tb and AIDS. (…) At the same time, I’m amazed by the work of the Nothing But Nets campaign, which has managed through Web-based marketing to raise $13 million – mostly from young people – for insecticide-treated bed nets. I believe we stand at a moment of unequaled opportunity. Governments must now step up to the plate with more money – wisely targeted – to expand effective global health programs to reach all those in need. Businesses, community groups and individuals all play a role as well. When Melinda and I visited that PEPFAR clinic in South Africa, we were thrilled to see the progress we’ve made against one deadly disease. I’m now more convinced than ever that we can create a healthier world for everyone. From: NEWSWEEK, OCTOBER 1, 2007 According to Bill Gates, this is a moment for governments to invest more money to increase global health programs to encompass everybody in need. improve the AIDS clinic in Durban. expand the supply of antiretroviral drugs. prevent diseases in third world countries. n.d.a.
The ranks of globalwarming deniers have mostly been forced to concede that the Earth really is getting warmer. 2007 could be a turning point in the effort to control global warming. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, marshaling the research of nearly 1,000 scientists from 74 countries, issued a longawaited report on climate change “impacts, adaptation and vulnerability.” The study found that global warming was already affecting the Earth’s ecosystems; it predicted that continued climate change, in combination with other environmental stressors such as population increases and greater urbanization, would lead to more severe and widespread drought, greater coastal and riverine flooding, and “increased risk of extinction” for 20 to 30 percent of plant and animal species. Depending on how much temperature rises, food production in the temperate regions (including parts of the United States and Canada) could actually increase, but would probably decline in much of the tropics. Newsweek, April 16th, 2007. The expressions “could be”, “would lead”, “could actually increase” and “would probably decline” in TEXT indicate: things which are unlikely to occur. occurrences in the recent past. things which will certainly happen in the future occurrences in the present. things which may happen in the future.
http://www.cartoonstock.com/directory/b/business_men.asp - Access: Apr. 2006. We can say the speaker in the cartoon sounds curious. friendly. proud. sorry. none of the alternatives.
THE GIRLS FROM BRAZIL by Mac Margolis At a glance Daniela Procopio would not likely pass for a diva of the Brazilian stage. Petite and with a timid smile, she lacks the commanding presence of pop singer Marisa Monte, who played to packed houses on her recent U.S. tour, never mind the bangles and towering platform shoes that turned pixie Carmen Miranda into a luminous giantess. But when Procopio breaks into song – say, “Quase Lenda,” a duet with celebrated Brazilian showman Carlinhos Brown – and her voice surges from a murmur to a lush, torrential soprano, the doubters might do well to sit up and listen. Though hardly a household name, Procopio, 33, a former industrial designer who took up professional singing only four years ago, has already made a mark in the Brazilian club scene and drawn praise from the country’s musical elite. In addition to Brown, artists such as clarinetist Paulo Moura and guitarist Toninho Horta – not to mention the multiple- Grammy-winning composer and arranger Eumir Deodato - pitched in on her maiden CD, to be launched in the coming months on an independent label. “Daniela’s got drive and a spectacular voice,” says the New Yorkbased Deodato, who has worked for megastars like Roberta Flack, George Benson and Bjork. “Judging by her, you can expect a lot more good things coming out of Brazil.” Newsweek (adapted) It is not true that Daniela Procopio has been singing for quite a long time. Daniela used to work in a completely different area. George Benson has already worked with Eumir Deodato. Carlinhos Brown is a very successful Brazilian singer. Daniela is releasing a CD very soon.
Read the text carefully and answer the question according to it. Denmark “world’s happiest nation” Denmark is the happiest country in the world, according to the latest World Values Survey published by the United States National Science Foundation. The annual study surveyed people in 97 countries to discover who is happiest. The survey asked people two simple questions about their happiness and their level of satisfaction with life. Puerto Rico and Colombia completed the top three happiest nations. Zimbabwe was found to be the least happy, with Russia and Iraq also in the bottom 10. The study was directed by University of Michigan professor Ronal Inglehart. He says that unlike other studies, which have focused on economic factors, his research has found that financial prosperity is not the only reason for happiness. “Our research indicates prosperity is linked with happiness. It does contribute,“ he says, “but it is not the most important factor.” “Personal freedom is even more important, and it’s freedom in all kinds of ways. Political freedom, like with democracy and freedom of choice.” A happier world The world is becoming a happier place overall, according to the survey, which has been conducted since 1981. Dr Inglehart says that gender equality is also an indicator of happiness, as is rising social tolerance. He says that both of these things have risen dramatically in recent years. The world’s wealthiest nation, the United States, was found to be the world’s 16th happiest country, behind Switzerland, Canada and Sweden. The study also found that the countries at the bottom of the list all struggle with widespread poverty or authoritarian governments. Zimbabwe, which is gripped by hyperinflation and has recently seen a controversial presidential election marred by violence, was found to be the least happy nation amongst the countries covered by the survey. (Disponível em: http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/pr/fr/-/2/hi/in_depth/7487143.stm. Acesso em: 04 set. 2008) The correct statement is: Over a hundred different countries participated in this research. Canada is among the top ten happiest countries in the world. This research on happiness was developed in Denmark. Zimbabwe is among the unhappiest countries of the study. USA is among the top ten happiest countries in the world.
Legend has it that a view gave rise to the name of Pernambuco’s first capital. In 1535 provincial lord Duarte Coelho, having climbed to the top of a hill, is believed to have said “Oh! Linda posição para uma vila!” The truth of this is anyone’s guess. By the same reasoning one would expect to find places like Poxaquebonita and Quelugarchique on the map – when in fact they do not exist. Still, the story is colorful – and gives you a destination this sunny morning: Alto da Sé, the hill from which Duarte Coelho supposedly waxed poetic. So you tramp up Rua do Amparo. With Carnaval just days away, Olinda is as pretty as a flower garden in Spring. Cobblestone alleys branch off in interesting directions, but you stay on course. Time to explore later, you think. First the view… www.speakup.com.br The sentence “Duarte Coelho is believed to have said something” in the active voice is Duarte Coelho believes he said something. Something believes Duarte Coelho said. Everybody said something to Duarte Coelho. We can believe Duarte Coelho said anything. People believe Duarte Coelho said something.
Texto II BRAZIL FLIGHTS CRIPPLED BY STRIKE 01 Airports have resumed flights in Brazil after air traffic controllers suspended a strike called to protest about their working conditions. 05 Government negotiators and trade unions reached an agreement to end the strike, which briefly halted all flights out of all of the country's 49 airports. Action had spread across Brazil after air 10 traffic controllers began a hunger strike in the capital, Brasilia. Thousands of passengers were left stranded by the protest. The striking controllers had said they had 15 lost all confidence in their commanders and the equipment at their disposal. Air traffic controllers in Brazil have staged similar protests since last September, when 154 people were killed in the country's 20 worst air disaster. The BBC's Tim Hirsch in Sao Paulo says internal flights have been in a state of chaos since the crash. Fonte: BBC NEWS, 31 March 2007 – UK Assinale a alternativa que apresenta a forma contraída do verbo ‘to be’ no passado. the country's main airports. the country's 49 airports. the country's worst air disaster. The BBC's Tim Hirsch in Sao Paulo. Brazil flight?s crippled by strike.
Pssst. Want to Know a Secret? 01 Aug. 21, 2006 - A women's deodorant company recently launched a major promotional campaign that encourages women to "Share your Secret." In national 05 TV ads and on outdoor billboards—including one in New York's Times Square—women are being applauded for their candid revelations of long-buried shames and thrills. "M" finally unburdens herself about her 20- 10 year struggle with bulimia, while Donna fesses up that she has slept with 70 men, not the mere four she told her husband. Wendy has had both her nipples pierced for a year 14 and nobody knows. http://society.guardian.co.uk/health/story/0,,1722885,00.html Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. A melhor tradução para a expressão ‘share your secrets’ (L4) em português é: compartilhe seus segredos. esconda seus segredos. mostre seus segredos. anuncie seus segredos. salve seus segredos.
Leia o seguinte anúncio publicitário. O segmento que se restringe a informar, sem fazer apelo ao leitor, é: The world speaks one language. Horse. ?personal and national pride on the line? As the whole world watches? ?and compete in seven disciplines? ?an entire nation has reason to celebrate?
Pssst. Want to Know a Secret? 01 Aug. 21, 2006 - A women's deodorant company recently launched a major promotional campaign that encourages women to "Share your Secret." In national 05 TV ads and on outdoor billboards—including one in New York's Times Square—women are being applauded for their candid revelations of long-buried shames and thrills. "M" finally unburdens herself about her 20- 10 year struggle with bulimia, while Donna fesses up that she has slept with 70 men, not the mere four she told her husband. Wendy has had both her nipples pierced for a year 14 and nobody knows. http://society.guardian.co.uk/health/story/0,,1722885,00.html Assinale a alternativa INCORRETA. o apostrofo ?s? (L1) indica posse. as palavras ?company? (L2) e ?campaign? (L3) são ambas cognatos em português. ?recently? (L2) e ?promotional? (L3) funcionam como advérbios em inglês. ?women? (L1) e ?men? (L11) são substantivos de plural irregular. ?encourages? (L3) é um verbo e está na terceira pessoa do singular.
Learning How to Behave Most people are unaware they possess a quite remarkable skill, which is usually overlooked because it is exercised daily, and in the most ordinary contexts. But without it, our lives would be unfulfilled and empty. It is the ability to relate to others, to encourage them in conversation, to operate as social and sociable individuals and to develop both shortterm and long-term relationships ___(1)___. We are not born with this ability. There is nothing wired into the human brain that provides us with set responses to social situations. To perform effectively in a world ___(2)___, encounters and relationships, we have to learn what to do. Small babies, as any parent will remember, are among the least sociable beings ___(3)___. They are totally demanding, utterly selfish and scream with rage if their every whim is not immediately satisfied. Somehow this unlikely raw material is transformed over the years into a being which relies for its survival on being able to form reciprocal bonds with others and to follow complex rules ___(4)___. The monstrous infant becomes the caring, responsible adult whose life experiences revolve around both the joys and pains, the giving and receiving, of friendships and other relationships. It is this remarkable transformation which is the central characteristic of being human. “Somehow this unlikely raw material is transformed over the years into a being...” This phrase refers to the: Babies Parents Adults Monstrous adults Selfish
GLOBAL WARMING On Feb. 2, 2007, the United Nations scientific panel studying climate change declared that the evidence of a warming trend is “unequivocal”, and that human activity has “very likely” been the driving force in that change over the last 50 years. The last report by the group, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in 2001, had found that humanity had “likely” played a role. The greenhouse effect has been part of the earth’s workings since its earliest days. Gases like carbon dioxide and methane allow sunlight to reach the earth, but prevent some of the resulting heat from radiating back out into space. Without the greenhouse effect, the planet would never have warmed enough to allow life to form. But as ever larger amounts of carbon dioxide have been released along with the development of industrial economies, the atmosphere has grown warmer at an accelerating rate. Since 1970, temperatures have gone up at nearly three times the average for the 20th century. Global Warming Science - The New York Times, May 6, 2007 According to the 2nd paragraph, gases such as carbon dioxide and methane have always endangered life on earth. there has been pollution of the atmosphere even before the development of industry. before 1970, temperatures were half what they are today. the greenhouse effect is basically essential for life on earth. we need all the heat we can get for balanced life to exist on our planet.
Com base no texto inicial, depreende-se que a persongem do filme canta profissionalmente. vende flores nas ruas. vive às custas de amigos. tem amigos cantores. cuida de jardins.
Grammar Express The sentence “Could I take the test tomorrow?” can be correctly replaced by: May I please have taken the test tomorrow? Would you mind my taking the test tomorrow? Can I have taken the test tomorrow? Do you mind take the test tomorrow? Must I take the test tomorrow?
http://www.cartoonistgroup.com/store/add.php?iid=1880 - Access: Apr. 2006. The word they in this cartoon refers to the lies. means. press. senators. none of the alternatives.
Leia os textos abaixo para responder a questão: Brazilian ethanol is not causing deforestation Ethanol production in Brazil is not causing deforestation in the Amazon region, says Peter Zuurbier, Associate Professor and Director of the Latin America Office of Wageningen University, the world’s leading center of expertise on tropical agriculture. According to him, the notion often held by NGO’s that sugarcane is displacing cattle and soybean production into the Amazon is inaccurate. “The real problem lies in illegal deforestation and lack of property rights, as around 50 percent of the Amazon region has disputed titles and this is an invitation for timber companies,” he says. Prof. Zuurbier tries to explain a dynamic process between illegal activities in the Amazon rainforest and the expansion of agricultural lands towards that region. NGO’s often state that sugarcane production is displacing cattle and soybean production towards and into the Amazon, burning down the area to make it suitable for agriculture and pastures. According to Zuurbier, however, the process is slightly different. “Well organized groups and corporations with questionable land titles, but also official land owners began to chop down large acreages of forest to trade timber, both legally and illegally,” he says. “Usually, after the empty strips of land were abandoned, cattle owners would move into these cheap lands. However, after 3 to 4 years of cattle breeding, the thin soil of the Amazon is completely useless without any form of fertilization and livestock owners usually move into the next abandoned area. Soybean farmers meanwhile replace the livestock in these areas, recognizing the opportunity to fertilize the area for soybean production.” Prof. Zuurbier says the cause of deforestation and agricultural production in or near the Amazon, is simply illegal deforestation itself. According to him, the fact that Brazil still has questionable land titles, no set-aside policy and great difficulty to enforce existing laws to counter illegal timber trade, are the real reasons why the Amazon rainforest is in danger. (Ethanol Statistics - January 21st 2008, http://www.sucre-ethique.org/ Wageningen-expert-Brazilian) Coasting on Past Glory The Amazon is still largely intact, but the future hinges on decisions being made now. From the window of a Boeing, few countries are greener than Brazil. Since much of this vast territory in the heart of South America is still unpeopled and unblemished, it’s not surprising that Brazil looks good against the backdrop of a mistreated planet. It ranks 34th of 149 nations in Yale and Columbia’s Environmental Performance Index – greener than Ireland (35th) and the United States (39th). But how long will the country be able to hold on to this favorable score? To get a better look, you have to go to 9,000 meters, the altitude from which the NASA remote-sensing satellites sweep the earth. Every year, scientists at Brazil’s National Institute for Space Research (INPE) pore over satellite images to produce the most detailed survey of deforestation of any nation in the world. Such candor has won Brazil kudos, but also criticism. Brazil is the fourth biggest contributor of greenhouse gases globally, of which 75 percent comes from the felling and burning of forests. So when data released by INPE in late May showed that 5,850 square kilometers of forest (an area larger than Brunei) had disappeared from August 2007 to April 2008 – a 17 percent spike from the year before – the planet took notice. “Brazil has a fantastic endowment from nature but is failing when it comes to managing it,” says Judicael Clevelario Junior, head of environmental studies at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), the census bureau. Brazil’s green laurels are not an illusion. Four fifths of its electric power comes from hydroelectric plants. It is the world leader in biofuels – nearly 30 percent of its cars run on ethanol. The trouble is that these virtues reflect sound decisions made in the 1970s, during the ambitious military government of Gen. Ernesto Geisel. Brazil has not always followed them up. (…) Fortunately, Brazil has options. Its booming economy is not beholden to coal-fired power plants, and the rain forest is still largely intact. “Brazil has a rare opportunity to transform itself into a rich country and still maintain its natural capital,” says Clevelario Jr. If it can go back to its old habit of making the right environmental moves. (Newsweek, July 14th 2008, http://www.newsweek.com/id/143696) Escolha a alternativa correta. É consenso entre o INPE, o IBGE, a NASA, a Universidade de Wageningen e várias ONGs que o Brasil tenha recursos naturais fantásticos, mas não consegue administrá-los com a ambição militar necessária. Especialistas do INPE e do IBGE concordam que, para evitar o desmatamento da região Amazônica, é preciso promover políticas de legalização de propriedade e incentivar a preparação de terras para a agricultura. A opinião de especialistas do INPE e do IBGE parece ser contraditória, no que se refere a formas de lidar com o desmatamento na Amazônia. Por isso, deveríamos seguir os conselhos de especialistas da Universidade de Wageningen e da NASA. No que se refere à Amazônia, ainda precisamos de políticas mais eficientes para lidar com o desmatamento, a legalização da propriedade e a adequação de decisões ambientais. Para resolver a questão do desmatamento da Amazônia, precisamos de uma política efetiva para a legalização de 50% das propriedades e a preparação delas para pastagens e agricultura.
The weather is cold. The music is low. The house is messy. The TV set is broken. The food is ready.
“Researchers and public-health officials have long understood that to maintain a given weight, energy in (calories consumed) must equal energy out (calories expended). But then they learned that genes were important, too, and that for some people this formula was tilted in a direction that led to weight gain. Since the discovery of the first obesity gene in 1994, scientists have found about 50 genes involved in obesity. Some of them determine how individuals lay down fat and metabolize energy stores. Others regulate how much people want to eat in the first place, how they know when they’ve had enough and how likely they are to use up calories through activities ranging from fidgeting to running marathons. People who can get fat on very little fuel may be genetically programmed to survive in harsher environments. When the human species got its start, it was an advantage to be efficient. Today, when food is plentiful, it is a hazard.” http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/13/magazine/13obesity.html. In the text, the pronoun “Others” (line 14) refers to calories. individuals. energy stores. scientists. genes.
The proverb “better safe than sorry”, used by Garfield, states that it?s not wise or polite to say something. explains that if someone gives you something, you should not complain about what you get. defines that doing something late is better than not doing it. tells us that we should not trust an opponent who offers to do something nice for us. advises you to be cautious; if you are not, you may regret it.
'Breast-Feeding Is Obscene' 01 Thirty-nine states currently have laws that specifically allow women to breast-feed in any public or private location. Apparently, that doesn't apply to nursing over the 05 Internet. Australia's Sydney Morning Herald last week reported a story on Facebook's antibreast- feeding stance. The social networking site that recently opened its doors to grownups 10 has been removing user photos of breast-feeding, calling them obscene, and has blocked some nursing-mom-photoposters from the site, including breastfeeding advocate and blogger Karen Speed. 15 According to SMH, Facebook spokeswoman Meredith Chin said, "Photos containing an exposed breast do violate our Terms and are removed." Much like every other breastfeeding mom slight in the past few years 20 (most recently Applebee's and Delta Air Lines), this one has sparked a protest of its own. The virtual ban has been met with a virtual group/petition entitled: "Hey, Facebook, breastfeeding is not obscene!" 25 Since the group's launch in June, more than 9,000 folks, both men and women, have joined it. Moms who have posted photos ask, what constitutes "exposed breast?" Is it the nipple 30 or the inch or so of flesh you see after the baby's latched on? Many simply are telling Facebook to grow up. Breast-feeding is natural and healthy for children. The government encourages moms to nurse. 35 Many states protect women's rights to do so wherever they may be when their hungry babies start demanding food. I've got to think that the folks at Facebook have better things to do than battle over a 40 woman's right to nurse in public, particularly with all the much more obscene groups on the site focused on both women's and men's genitalia. What do you think? Fonte: www.blog.washingtonpost.com.br Analise as afirmações. I. A expressão grown-ups (linha 9) é um substantivo e significa, no texto, adultos. II. Sparked ( linha 21), cuja forma verbal no infinitivo é spark, significa protestar, reclamar, queixar-se. III. A forma verbal launch (linha 25) significa desembarcar. IV. Latched on ( linha 31), cuja forma no infinitivo é latch on, significa grudar em. V. A expressão private location ( linha 3) significa local particular. Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. Apenas I, II e V são falsas. Apenas I, II e IV são falsas. Apenas III, IV e V são falsas. Apenas I, II e III são verdadeiras. Apenas I, IV e V são verdadeiras.
Coasting on Past Glory The Amazon is still largely intact, but the future hinges on decisions being made now. From the window of a Boeing, few countries are greener than Brazil. Since much of this vast territory in the heart of South America is still unpeopled and unblemished, it’s not surprising that Brazil looks good against the backdrop of a mistreated planet. It ranks 34th of 149 nations in Yale and Columbia’s Environmental Performance Index – greener than Ireland (35th) and the United States (39th). But how long will the country be able to hold on to this favorable score? To get a better look, you have to go to 9,000 meters, the altitude from which the NASA remote-sensing satellites sweep the earth. Every year, scientists at Brazil’s National Institute for Space Research (INPE) pore over satellite images to produce the most detailed survey of deforestation of any nation in the world. Such candor has won Brazil kudos, but also criticism. Brazil is the fourth biggest contributor of greenhouse gases globally, of which 75 percent comes from the felling and burning of forests. So when data released by INPE in late May showed that 5,850 square kilometers of forest (an area larger than Brunei) had disappeared from August 2007 to April 2008 – a 17 percent spike from the year before – the planet took notice. “Brazil has a fantastic endowment from nature but is failing when it comes to managing it,” says Judicael Clevelario Junior, head of environmental studies at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), the census bureau. Brazil’s green laurels are not an illusion. Four fifths of its electric power comes from hydroelectric plants. It is the world leader in biofuels – nearly 30 percent of its cars run on ethanol. The trouble is that these virtues reflect sound decisions made in the 1970s, during the ambitious military government of Gen. Ernesto Geisel. Brazil has not always followed them up. (…) Fortunately, Brazil has options. Its booming economy is not beholden to coal-fired power plants, and the rain forest is still largely intact. “Brazil has a rare opportunity to transform itself into a rich country and still maintain its natural capital,” says Clevelario Jr. If it can go back to its old habit of making the right environmental moves. (Newsweek, July 14th 2008, http://www.newsweek.com/id/143696) Indique a alternativa em que os termos denotam, respectivamente, o mesmo significado dos sublinhados na sentença: The Amazon is still largely intact, but the future hinges on decisions being made now. already ... depends on almost ... looks at mostly ... depends on completely ... points to totally ... describes
NEW YORK, (Reuters Life!) – A New Jersey man trying to exterminate insects in his apartment blew it up instead, the New York Daily News reported on Monday. Isias Vidal Maceda was unhurt in the incident, but 80 percent of his apartment was destroyed, Eatontown, New Jersey police told the newspaper. The accident occurred as Maceda was spraying for pests in his kitchen. Somehow the bug spray ignited a blast that blew out the apartment`s front windows and trigged a fire that quickly spread, the newspaper said. Police told the newspaper that the Saturday blaze also caused smoke damage to the apartment above. (http: uk.reuters.com) The incident reported is: A man who destroyed his apartment as he forgot his cigarette burning near the kitchen windows. A man who accidentally set on fire most of his apartment when trying to get rid of the insects in his kitchen. A man who burned 80 percent of his body when he tried to exterminate the insects in his apartment in New Jersey. An explosion that came from a nearby apartment and consequently damaged Maceda`s apartment. A tornado that blew out Maceda`s apartment front windows and also damaged his neighbor`s apartment.
NEW YORK, (Reuters Life!) – A New Jersey man trying to exterminate insects in his apartment blew it up instead, the New York Daily News reported on Monday. Isias Vidal Maceda was unhurt in the incident, but 80 percent of his apartment was destroyed, Eatontown, New Jersey police told the newspaper. The accident occurred as Maceda was spraying for pests in his kitchen. Somehow the bug spray ignited a blast that blew out the apartment`s front windows and trigged a fire that quickly spread, the newspaper said. Police told the newspaper that the Saturday blaze also caused smoke damage to the apartment above. (http: uk.reuters.com) According to the text: Isias Vidal Maceda called the New York Daily News to report what had happened to him on a Monday morning. The New Jersey police told the New York Daily News what had happened to Maceda inside his apartment. Maceda, who lives in Eatontown, New Jersey, is an expert insect exterminator. The facts the New York Daily News reported had inconsistent elements, said Maceda. Isias Maceda had problems with Eatontown, New Jersey police because he was living illegally in the state.
SAVING THE WORLD IS WITHIN OUR GRASP By Bill Gates Last year my wife, Melinda, and I visited an AIDS clinic in Durban, South Africa. We met women who walked miles from nearby townships. When they arrived, they were greeted by a well-trained staff. There was an ample supply of antiretroviral drugs, which can help people with AIDS stay healthy for years. Patients were receiving counseling. As we chatted with one of the doctors in the clinic, it struck me: something was fundamentally different. Nearly a decade ago, when Melinda and I started our foundation, we would go to sub-Saharan Africa or developing countries in other regions and see health workers struggling with broken equipment and empty medicine chests. We walked down dirty hallways packed with exhausted mothers holding sick children. (…) But that’s starting to change. Today governments, aid groups and communities are simply refusing to accept the notion that diseases like malaria and tuberculosis will haunt us forever. The evidence is in: these problems can be solved. The world can point to a number of victories already. Smallpox is gone, of course, and polio nearly so. Thanks to the leadership of the Carter Center, we’ve virtually eliminated guinea-worm disease, an excruciatingly painful parasite that is ingested with tainted water. There are new treatments available for visceral leishmaniasis, also called black fever, which is second only to malaria as the world’s deadliest parasite killer. […] Some lifesaving solutions can be extremely simple – iodized salt to prevent stunted growth, for example, or oral rehydration solutions to fight diarrhea. Consider that one of the easiest ways to cut down on infant mortality is to keep babies warm and dry. Earlier this year, Save the Children recruited knitters through the internet to knit and crochet 280,000 caps for infants. Other solutions will arise from pioneering research now underway. Researchers are hard at work developing vaccines that don’t need refrigeration or needles, which could make it easier and cheaper to deliver immunization in poor countries. Scientists are making important progress on new tools, like microbicide gels, to help women protect themselves against HIV. And clinical trials around the world are now testing what may be the greatest scientific breakthroughs of our time: vaccines for malaria, Tb and AIDS. (…) At the same time, I’m amazed by the work of the Nothing But Nets campaign, which has managed through Web-based marketing to raise $13 million – mostly from young people – for insecticide-treated bed nets. I believe we stand at a moment of unequaled opportunity. Governments must now step up to the plate with more money – wisely targeted – to expand effective global health programs to reach all those in need. Businesses, community groups and individuals all play a role as well. When Melinda and I visited that PEPFAR clinic in South Africa, we were thrilled to see the progress we’ve made against one deadly disease. I’m now more convinced than ever that we can create a healthier world for everyone. From: NEWSWEEK, OCTOBER 1, 2007 Some of the good results pointed by Gates is the fact that cheaper vaccines for TB and AIDS have been developed. black fever is gone and AIDS is nearly so. tuberculosis and malaria no longer kill people. smallpox has been eliminated. n.d.a.
'Breast-Feeding Is Obscene' 01 Thirty-nine states currently have laws that specifically allow women to breast-feed in any public or private location. Apparently, that doesn't apply to nursing over the 05 Internet. Australia's Sydney Morning Herald last week reported a story on Facebook's antibreast- feeding stance. The social networking site that recently opened its doors to grownups 10 has been removing user photos of breast-feeding, calling them obscene, and has blocked some nursing-mom-photoposters from the site, including breastfeeding advocate and blogger Karen Speed. 15 According to SMH, Facebook spokeswoman Meredith Chin said, "Photos containing an exposed breast do violate our Terms and are removed." Much like every other breastfeeding mom slight in the past few years 20 (most recently Applebee's and Delta Air Lines), this one has sparked a protest of its own. The virtual ban has been met with a virtual group/petition entitled: "Hey, Facebook, breastfeeding is not obscene!" 25 Since the group's launch in June, more than 9,000 folks, both men and women, have joined it. Moms who have posted photos ask, what constitutes "exposed breast?" Is it the nipple 30 or the inch or so of flesh you see after the baby's latched on? Many simply are telling Facebook to grow up. Breast-feeding is natural and healthy for children. The government encourages moms to nurse. 35 Many states protect women's rights to do so wherever they may be when their hungry babies start demanding food. I've got to think that the folks at Facebook have better things to do than battle over a 40 woman's right to nurse in public, particularly with all the much more obscene groups on the site focused on both women's and men's genitalia. What do you think? Fonte: www.blog.washingtonpost.com.br Assinale a alternativa INCORRETA. Atualmente, trinta e nove estados possuem leis que permitem às mulheres amamentar em qualquer lugar público ou privado. O site Facebook tem removido fotos com mulheres amamentando, por considerá-las obscenas. Uma porta-voz da Facebook, Meredith Chin, afirmou que as fotos que contêm exposição de seio são removidas porque violam o seu regimento. Contrário a essa proibição, um grupo na Internet informou à Facebook que a amamentação não é obscena, e a partir da primeira manifestação desse grupo, em junho, mais de 9.000 pessoas, entre homens e mulheres, já se juntaram a ele. A reação de muitas pessoas foi de dizer à Facebook para amadurecer a idéia acerca da questão, pois amamentar é natural e saudável para as crianças, muito embora o governo não encoraje as mães a amamentar.
'Breast-Feeding Is Obscene' 01 Thirty-nine states currently have laws that specifically allow women to breast-feed in any public or private location. Apparently, that doesn't apply to nursing over the 05 Internet. Australia's Sydney Morning Herald last week reported a story on Facebook's antibreast- feeding stance. The social networking site that recently opened its doors to grownups 10 has been removing user photos of breast-feeding, calling them obscene, and has blocked some nursing-mom-photoposters from the site, including breastfeeding advocate and blogger Karen Speed. 15 According to SMH, Facebook spokeswoman Meredith Chin said, "Photos containing an exposed breast do violate our Terms and are removed." Much like every other breastfeeding mom slight in the past few years 20 (most recently Applebee's and Delta Air Lines), this one has sparked a protest of its own. The virtual ban has been met with a virtual group/petition entitled: "Hey, Facebook, breastfeeding is not obscene!" 25 Since the group's launch in June, more than 9,000 folks, both men and women, have joined it. Moms who have posted photos ask, what constitutes "exposed breast?" Is it the nipple 30 or the inch or so of flesh you see after the baby's latched on? Many simply are telling Facebook to grow up. Breast-feeding is natural and healthy for children. The government encourages moms to nurse. 35 Many states protect women's rights to do so wherever they may be when their hungry babies start demanding food. I've got to think that the folks at Facebook have better things to do than battle over a 40 woman's right to nurse in public, particularly with all the much more obscene groups on the site focused on both women's and men's genitalia. What do you think? Fonte: www.blog.washingtonpost.com.br O verbo do, além de ter vários significados, possui também diversas funções. Assinale a alternativa em que a função ou a significação de do está INCORRETA. O termo "do" (linha 17) funciona como um enfatizador, ajudando a reforçar o sentido do verbo "violate". O termo "do" (linha 35) é usado como verbo vicário, com a função de referir-se a um verbo já citado anteriormente, no caso, o verbo "nurse" (linha 34). O termo "do" (linha 39) significa fazer. O termo "do" (linha 43) não tem tradução, mas tem a função de auxiliar na construção de uma frase interrogativa no tempo presente. O termo "doesn?t" (linha 4) é empregado como verbo principal.
Leia o texto a seguir e responda à questão. NEUROSCIENCE NO MORE...PLEASE! A chocolate orgy for science’s sake. How does your brain know when you’ve had too much of a good thing? Dana Small, a cognitive neuroscientist at Northwestern University’s School of Medicine in Chicago, decided to look into it by feeding people chocolate. She stood in the hallway of her department and recruited nine self-proclaimed cocoa-bean lovers, hooked them up to MRI machines, gave them chocolate, and then measured blood flow in their brains while they ate. Between bites, they were asked two questions: “Do you want another piece?” and “On a scale of minus-10 to plus-10, how much did you like the last piece?” Of course, in the time the volunteers’ euphoria over tasting the confection turned to satiation, and, as it did, Small saw changes in their brain activity. When the subjects ate chocolate and enjoyed it, a region associated with mood – the medial part of the orbital frontal cortex – was active. But as they began to feel satiated, blood stopped flowing to that area and increased in another region probably responsible for the decision to stop eating – the adjacent lateral orbital frontal cortex. Such images will help scientists better understand how addiction causes the brain’s normal response to a good thing to go awry. But the research also yielded a curious, unexpected result: Women ate twice as much chocolate as men before getting their fill. And while men stopped eating because they began to find the chocolate unpleasant, women stopped only when their bellies were stuffed. During the course of the study, Small also discovered another interesting fact: People of Asian descent tended to be satisfied after eating only one or two pieces of chocolate. Non-Asians, on the other hand, practically gorged themselves. SINHA, G. NO MORE...PLEASE! Popular Science. New York, v. 259, n. 7, Jan. 2002, p. 42. Vocabulário to go awry: sair do curso normal gorged themselves: empanturraram-se Em relação à tipologia textual, o texto é argumentativo, porque trata dos malefícios e benefícios de se comer chocolate. científico, porque apresenta uma tese e procura fundamentá-la com evidências. apelativo, por tentar convencer as pessoas a comerem mais chocolate. didático, porque requer o conhecimento do significado exato dos termos com que opera. informativo, porque relata os resultados de uma experiência na área de neurociência.
SAVING THE WORLD IS WITHIN OUR GRASP By Bill Gates Last year my wife, Melinda, and I visited an AIDS clinic in Durban, South Africa. We met women who walked miles from nearby townships. When they arrived, they were greeted by a well-trained staff. There was an ample supply of antiretroviral drugs, which can help people with AIDS stay healthy for years. Patients were receiving counseling. As we chatted with one of the doctors in the clinic, it struck me: something was fundamentally different. Nearly a decade ago, when Melinda and I started our foundation, we would go to sub-Saharan Africa or developing countries in other regions and see health workers struggling with broken equipment and empty medicine chests. We walked down dirty hallways packed with exhausted mothers holding sick children. (…) But that’s starting to change. Today governments, aid groups and communities are simply refusing to accept the notion that diseases like malaria and tuberculosis will haunt us forever. The evidence is in: these problems can be solved. The world can point to a number of victories already. Smallpox is gone, of course, and polio nearly so. Thanks to the leadership of the Carter Center, we’ve virtually eliminated guinea-worm disease, an excruciatingly painful parasite that is ingested with tainted water. There are new treatments available for visceral leishmaniasis, also called black fever, which is second only to malaria as the world’s deadliest parasite killer. […] Some lifesaving solutions can be extremely simple – iodized salt to prevent stunted growth, for example, or oral rehydration solutions to fight diarrhea. Consider that one of the easiest ways to cut down on infant mortality is to keep babies warm and dry. Earlier this year, Save the Children recruited knitters through the internet to knit and crochet 280,000 caps for infants. Other solutions will arise from pioneering research now underway. Researchers are hard at work developing vaccines that don’t need refrigeration or needles, which could make it easier and cheaper to deliver immunization in poor countries. Scientists are making important progress on new tools, like microbicide gels, to help women protect themselves against HIV. And clinical trials around the world are now testing what may be the greatest scientific breakthroughs of our time: vaccines for malaria, Tb and AIDS. (…) At the same time, I’m amazed by the work of the Nothing But Nets campaign, which has managed through Web-based marketing to raise $13 million – mostly from young people – for insecticide-treated bed nets. I believe we stand at a moment of unequaled opportunity. Governments must now step up to the plate with more money – wisely targeted – to expand effective global health programs to reach all those in need. Businesses, community groups and individuals all play a role as well. When Melinda and I visited that PEPFAR clinic in South Africa, we were thrilled to see the progress we’ve made against one deadly disease. I’m now more convinced than ever that we can create a healthier world for everyone. From: NEWSWEEK, OCTOBER 1, 2007 The Carter Center has been able to beat malaria and smallpox. eradicate guinea-worm disease. test a vaccine for malaria. produce microbicide gels to protect women against HIV. n.d.a.
What is gender anyway? […] History and science suggest that gender is more subtle and complicated than anatomy. (It’s separate from sexual orientation, too, which determines which sex we’re attracted to.) Gender helps us organize the world into two boxes, his and hers, and gives us a way of quickly sizing up every person we see on the street. “Gender is a way of making the world secure,” says feminist scholar Judith Butler. Though some scholars like Butler consider gender largely a social construct, others increasingly see it as a complex interplay of biology, genes, hormones and culture. Genesis set up the initial dichotomy: “Male and female he created them.” And historically, the differences between men and women were thought to be distinct. […] But, as society changed, the stereotypes faded. […] Still, even the most diehard feminist would likely agree that we are not exactly alike. In many cases, our habits, our posture, and even cultural identifiers like the way we dress set us apart. Now as transgender people become more visible and challenge the old boundaries, they’ve given voice to another debate–whether gender comes in just two flavors. […] “Transgender” is an umbrella term that includes anyone whose gender identity or expression differs from the sex of their birth–whether they have surgery or not. [...]However, male or female, we all start life looking pretty much the same. Newsweek, May 21st, 2007. According to TEXT, gender dichotomy was first set up: in the Bible. by scientists. by feminist scholars like Judith Butler. by historians. by society.
Brazilian ethanol is not causing deforestation Ethanol production in Brazil is not causing deforestation in the Amazon region, says Peter Zuurbier, Associate Professor and Director of the Latin America Office of Wageningen University, the world’s leading center of expertise on tropical agriculture. According to him, the notion often held by NGO’s that sugarcane is displacing cattle and soybean production into the Amazon is inaccurate. “The real problem lies in illegal deforestation and lack of property rights, as around 50 percent of the Amazon region has disputed titles and this is an invitation for timber companies,” he says. Prof. Zuurbier tries to explain a dynamic process between illegal activities in the Amazon rainforest and the expansion of agricultural lands towards that region. NGO’s often state that sugarcane production is displacing cattle and soybean production towards and into the Amazon, burning down the area to make it suitable for agriculture and pastures. According to Zuurbier, however, the process is slightly different. “Well organized groups and corporations with questionable land titles, but also official land owners began to chop down large acreages of forest to trade timber, both legally and illegally,” he says. “Usually, after the empty strips of land were abandoned, cattle owners would move into these cheap lands. However, after 3 to 4 years of cattle breeding, the thin soil of the Amazon is completely useless without any form of fertilization and livestock owners usually move into the next abandoned area. Soybean farmers meanwhile replace the livestock in these areas, recognizing the opportunity to fertilize the area for soybean production.” Prof. Zuurbier says the cause of deforestation and agricultural production in or near the Amazon, is simply illegal deforestation itself. According to him, the fact that Brazil still has questionable land titles, no set-aside policy and great difficulty to enforce existing laws to counter illegal timber trade, are the real reasons why the Amazon rainforest is in danger. (Ethanol Statistics - January 21st 2008, http://www.sucre-ethique.org/ Wageningen-expert-Brazilian) Escolha a alternativa correta. Zuurbier, apoiado por especialistas da UniversidadeWageningen e por várias ONGs, defende a idéia de que as produções de cana-de-açúcar e de soja sejam as causasdo desmatamento ilegal na região Amazônica. Zuurbier opõe-se à idéia de que a produção de cana-de-açúcar esteja substituindo a criação de gado e a produção de soja. Ele acredita que o problema real da Amazônia esteja no desmatamento ilegal e na falta de legalização de propriedades. Zuurbier concorda com as ONGs que afirmam que a produção de cana-de-açúcar substitui a produção de soja, pois a legalização do direito à propriedade não é fator que repercuta no desmatamento. Zuurbier, especialistas da Universidade Wageningen evárias ONGs defendem a idéia de que a falta de legalização da propriedade e a produção de cana-de-açúcar sejam as principais causas do desmatamento ilegal na região Amazônica. Zuurbier concorda com a idéia de que a cana-de-açúcar esteja substituindo a criação de gado e a produção de soja na Amazônia, pois não crê que o desmatamento ilegal e as questões de propriedade sejam grandes problemas.
Os cartuns têm em comum o fato de os objetos personificados serem colocados em uma relação de tensão entre si. revoltados com sua condição inanimada. mostrados como conscientes de seus direitos. afetados por conflitos interiores. felizes com as funções que desempenham.
SMALL BRIBES, BIG CHALLENGE Extent and nature of petty corruption in South Africa Although grand corruption like that associated with the arms deal receives most media attention, petty corruption can be as damaging if left unchecked. According to the ISS 2003 National Victims of Crime survey, petty corruption was the second most prevalent crime in the country after housebreaking. Of most concern is that many citizens do not know how to report corruption, do not believe that doing so will change anything, and, despite good whistleblower provisions, are afraid of the consequences if they do report. It should be noted from the outset that many incidents of corruption or attempted corruption were probably not reported to the survey. Some victims may be aware of their perceived ‘complicity’ as the bribe payer (albeit on demand, possibly accompanied with the threat of withholding a service) and would worry that by answering the questions they might implicate themselves. Others may not know that being asked for a bribe in return for a service constitutes a crime, and may instead see this as a ‘normal’ transaction fee required to ensure the delivery of services. Similarly, requests for ‘favours’ and ‘gifts’ may be overlooked as a form of corruption. These acts typically involve the purchase of a cold drink, alcohol or a meal in return for speeding up a service or the efficient delivery of a service. Some members of the public may regard this as an accepted form of gratitude. The view that it would not change anything, and the lack of knowledge about where and how to report (which together represent two thirds of responses) could be addressed in the short term by a sustained awareness campaign by the public service. This should be geared towards informing citizens of why they need to counter corruption, thus popularising a whistleblowing culture, as well as ensuring that people know what channels to use to report (i.e. through national hotlines). A dedicated public education campaign is needed to address the lack of awareness about what constitutes corruption and how to report it. Consensus among the elite will not be enough to stop corrupt practices. Ultimately broad public participation is required to promote a culture of whistleblowing in the public and private sectors, but also to ensure that corruption is prevented in future. Hennie van Vuuren, Institute for Security Studies hvanvuuren@issct.org.za Access: Apr. 2006. (Adapted) Whistleblower provisions could be interpreted as a means of committing crimes. providing whistles. reporting corruption. rewarding reports. none of the alternatives.
Inglês - UFG 2010/1 De acordo com Kwesi Kwaa Prah, significa um retrocesso para o continente africano a diversidade linguística característica das regiões mais povoadas. manutenção pelas sociedades pós-coloniais dos processos de assimilação. utilização das línguas dos colonizadores para promover o desenvolvimento. adoção dos princípios do multiculturalismo pelas instituições educacionais. integração da elite com as culturas locais, às quais ela pertence histórica e socialmente.
Leia atentamente o texto abaixo para responder a questão Why Are People Taller Today Than Yesterday? Tuesday, Jul. 08, 2008 By LAURA BLUE – TIME MAGAZINE Skeletons and written records show that human beings today are inches taller than humans just a century or two ago. And yet even today average heights vary among different nationalities, even among genetically homogenous populations, like the South Koreans and North Koreans. (South Koreans are taller.) John Komlos, professor of economics at the University of Munich and a pioneer in studying human well-being through history, explains what governs human height, and why some populations are taller than others. Q: Why are people taller today than yesterday? A: There are two main reasons. One is that the diet has improved considerably. In spite of some very negative aspects of the diet of industrialized populations, we have much better vitamin, mineral and protein intake than 100 or 200 years ago. As a consequence the body can grow much better. In addition, our health has improved considerably along with medical technology. We have fewer endemic diseases, and fewer epidemic diseases. That is important because an incidence of disease usually means that the nutrients we do consume are not absorbed by the body sufficiently. Diseases lay a claim on our energy intake, so that there is not enough left over for the body to grow. These two factors play a considerable role. We have been increasing in height for about 140 years. Prior to that, there were cycles in height, depending on economic circumstances and agricultural productivity and so forth. We were relatively tall in the Middle Ages, when population densities were relatively low and food supplies were still fairly adequate. The low point was in the 17th century. Frenchmen, for example, were about 162 cm on average [not quite 5 ft. 4 in.], which is extremely small. Only since about the middle of the 19th century there has been a general trend upwards. The American population was the tallest in the world from about the American Revolution to World War II — that’s a long time. (There is a genetic component to [population] height, but there is very little genetic difference between European populations or their overseas offshoots.) America had a very resource-rich environment, with game, fish and wildlife. In fact we have data on disadvantaged people in America, such as slaves. They were obviously among the most mistreated populations in the world, but given the resource abundance — and given the fact that the slave owners needed their work — they had to be fed relatively decently. So slaves were taller than European peasants. It’s no wonder that Europeans were just flooding to America. [Americans today are no longer the tallest people in the world.] After the Second World War, many Western and Northern European countries began to adopt certain favorable social policies. There is universal health insurance in most of these societies — that, of course, makes a difference in health care. You can also consider income inequality in America, since people who are at the low end of the totem pole have considerable adversity making ends meet. I suspect the difference [in height between Americans and Europeans] is due to both diet and health care. Americans today suffer from an additional problem: obesity. If children are too well nourished, then they’re not able to grow optimally. There are certain hormones that control the onset of the adolescent growth spurt and the onset of adolescence. Nutrition is one of the factors, along with genetic and hormonal ones, that are associated with the onset of puberty. Overnutrition prior to adolescence may affect the hormonal system and may produce too much growth hormone prior to puberty, so that sex steroids are produced earlier. And if that comes too early, then the youth will peak out sooner, and will not become as tall in adulthood as someone who had better nutrition. Also, the overload of carbohydrates and fats in a fast-food diet may hinder the consumption of micronutrients essential to growth. Por que crianças com nutrição em excesso podem não crescer de maneira ideal? Devido à falta de certos hormônios que controlam o crescimento na adolescência. A grande quantidade de carboidratos e rduras presentes em ?fast food? pode inibir a produção de hormônios importantes para o crescimento. Nutrição em excesso pode afetar o sistema hormonal, fazendo com que a produção de esteróides ocorra antes do tempo. Nutrição em excesso pode impedir que a produção de hormônios de crescimento atinja seu pico, prejudicando assim o crescimento ideal. Nutrição em excesso não tem nenhuma relação com os hormônios que controlam o crescimento.
Researchers studying 313 healthy Vietnam veterans have found that anger, depression and hostility may increase the risk for cardiovascular disease, diabetes and high blood pressure. Over a period of ten years, the men had regular physical examinations involving a wide variety of medical tests. They also underwent psychological examinations using well-established questionnaires to determine their levels of hostility, anger and depression. The researchers measured blood levels of a protein called C3, a marker for the inflammation that is a risk factor for cardiovascular illnesses. After controlling for other variables, the scientists found that those in the highest one-quarter in hostility, anger and depression showed a steady and significant increase in C3 levels, while those in the lowest one-quarter had no increase. www.nytimes.com, August 14, 2007. Adaptado. Os resultados do estudo mencionado no texto sugerem que os níveis da proteína C3 diminuem em homens que passaram por experiências traumáticas de guerra. níveis altos de hostilidade são potencial ameaça à saúde mental. doenças cardiovasculares podem estar relacionadas aos níveis de hostilidade, raiva e depressão. baixa ingestão de proteínas pode causar raiva e depressão, estimulando comportamentos hostis. os veteranos do Vietnã analisados estavam menos deprimidos que o esperado.
Legend has it that a view gave rise to the name of Pernambuco’s first capital. In 1535 provincial lord Duarte Coelho, having climbed to the top of a hill, is believed to have said “Oh! Linda posição para uma vila!” The truth of this is anyone’s guess. By the same reasoning one would expect to find places like Poxaquebonita and Quelugarchique on the map – when in fact they do not exist. Still, the story is colorful – and gives you a destination this sunny morning: Alto da Sé, the hill from which Duarte Coelho supposedly waxed poetic. So you tramp up Rua do Amparo. With Carnaval just days away, Olinda is as pretty as a flower garden in Spring. Cobblestone alleys branch off in interesting directions, but you stay on course. Time to explore later, you think. First the view… www.speakup.com.br The text states that Olinda was named after provincial lord Duarte Coelho. the name ?Olinda? may have been originated from a statement made by Duarte Coelho. if you look carefully, you can find ?Quelugarchique? on the map. carnaval is taking place I Olinda right now. in spring, Olinda is full of cobblestone alleys.
Assinale a alternativa que contém, respectivamente, uma informação correta a respeito do cachorro e uma informação correta a respeito do gato. foi treinado na polícia; alimentava-se de boa comida. Era muito mimado; aprontava na região onde morava. Foi treinado na polícia; era muito rico e carinhoso. Protegia os gatos da cidade; alimentava-se de boa comida. Era muito mimado; era muito rico e carinhoso.
According to the text, some kinds of delicacies are already part of the space men. ramen is eaten with chopsticks in space. astronauts can choose the kind of food they wish to cook in space. gravity is a big issue in space, for only forks and spoons can be used at meal times. chocolate pudding and tortellini are seldom sipped with a straw.
According to Snoopy, Woodstock used to carry messages to headquarters. Woodstock could have been a carrier pigeon. Woodstock was brave and didn?t talk even when he was tortured. Woodstock could talk a little when he was small. Woodstock has never been captured by the enemies.
http://www.cartoonistgroup.com/store/add.php?iid=10842 - Access: Apr. 2006. The speaker in the cartoon is trying to denounce his old enemies. justify his corrupt actions. promote his promising career. ridicule his political opponents. none of the alternatives.
Vocabulário: Puts down: deprecia bigotry: intolerância stand up against: lutar contra scapegoating: acusações injustas Segundo o texto, as sociedades civis só podem prosperar se os etereótipos nocivos forem eliminados. O que impede que isso aonteça deve-se ao fato de que os estereótipos são crenças estabilizadas e dificeis de ser reconhecidas. se confundem com as piadas e frases preconceituosas. são uma forma de manter as minorias em posição inferiorizada. não são vistos negativamento como, por exemplo, o genocídio. são percebidos como evidência de diversidade cultural.
Inglês - UFG 2011 establishes a quite intimate relationship with his patients. keeps his patients waiting too much time in the waiting room. talks about everything and forgets requesting basic information. spends all the time on blah blah blah and does not work. maintains friendly contact with his patients and charges for it.
01 Madeleine McCann's parents return to U.K. Couple, now suspects, deny involvement in disappearance of 4-year-old 05 McCann's father: 'Heartbreaking' return Sept. 9: The parents of missing four-yearold Madeleine McCann have returned to the U.K. after being named suspects in their daughter's disappearance. Watch Gerry 10 McCann's statement to the press upon the family's arrival on British soil. MSNBC:Updated: 10:02 a.m. ET Sept. 9, 2007 CASTLE DONINGTON, England – A 15 British couple named as suspects in the disappearance of their 4-year-old daughter returned to England Sunday, days after being grilled by Portuguese police about new forensic evidence authorities believe 20 ties them to the case. Kate and Gerry McCann, who have strongly denied any involvement in the disappearance of their daughter Madeleine, flew from Faro in southern Portugal with 25 their 2-year-old twins. The father said the couple wanted “to consider the events of the last few days, which have been so deeply disturbing.” “While it is heartbreaking to return to the 30 U.K. without Madeleine, it does not mean we are giving up the search for her,” Gerry McCann said on the airport tarmac in central England. Fonte: www.cnn.com.br Analise as afirmações. I. Os pais de Madeleine retornaram à Inglaterra, após serem considerados suspeitos pelo desaparecimento da filha. II. O casal MacCann foi preso pela polícia portuguesa, acusado pelo desaparecimento de Madeleine. III. As autoridades portuguesas acreditam que o casal MacCann possui algum envolvimento no caso Madeleine. IV. Os pais de Madeleine ainda não desistiram de encontrar a filha desaparecida na Inglaterra. V. Kate e Gerry MacCann foram considerados culpados pelo desaparecimento da sua filha Madeleine. Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. Apenas I, II e IV são verdadeiras. Apenas III, IV e V são verdadeiras. Apenas II e V são falsas. Apenas III e IV são falsas. Apenas II, IV e V são falsas.
Leia o trecho a seguir e responda à questão. Larabi’s Ox ... The American took several deep breaths, appearing to stare at the new mosque.… Then suddenly he was moving ahead, toward the open doorway of the mosque. “No,” the kid said. He dared to grab the American´s arm. “Please, it is not permitted.” “Rules were made to be bent.” The American puffed and winked. “Not in Morocco.” “I’d like to go in there, kid.” “But it is not permitted.” “Why not? I’ll take off my shoes.” “You are not of the faith.” “In Spain, they let anybody into mosques. What’s so special here? The kid frowned, “I am very sorry. It is not so much what is special here as what is not special everywhere else.” The American shrugged. “Well, can’t I even look in the door?” Tony Ardizzone BLANTON, L. L.; LEE, L. The multicultural workshop. Book 3. Boston, MA: Heinle & Heinle, 1995, p. 178. [Adaptado]. Qual dos enunciados proferidos pelo americano explicita um pedido? Rules were made to be bent. Why not? I?ll take off my shoes. In Spain, they let anybody into mosques. What?s so special here? Well, can?t I even look in the door?
THE GIRLS FROM BRAZIL by Mac Margolis At a glance Daniela Procopio would not likely pass for a diva of the Brazilian stage. Petite and with a timid smile, she lacks the commanding presence of pop singer Marisa Monte, who played to packed houses on her recent U.S. tour, never mind the bangles and towering platform shoes that turned pixie Carmen Miranda into a luminous giantess. But when Procopio breaks into song – say, “Quase Lenda,” a duet with celebrated Brazilian showman Carlinhos Brown – and her voice surges from a murmur to a lush, torrential soprano, the doubters might do well to sit up and listen. Though hardly a household name, Procopio, 33, a former industrial designer who took up professional singing only four years ago, has already made a mark in the Brazilian club scene and drawn praise from the country’s musical elite. In addition to Brown, artists such as clarinetist Paulo Moura and guitarist Toninho Horta – not to mention the multiple- Grammy-winning composer and arranger Eumir Deodato - pitched in on her maiden CD, to be launched in the coming months on an independent label. “Daniela’s got drive and a spectacular voice,” says the New Yorkbased Deodato, who has worked for megastars like Roberta Flack, George Benson and Bjork. “Judging by her, you can expect a lot more good things coming out of Brazil.” Newsweek (adapted) The word “maiden” in the text means female. next. ultimate. first. spectacular.
Responda à questão com base no cartum a seguir: A resposta de Lucy a Charlie Brown subentende que ela é religiosa. determinada. caridosa. presunçosa. ingênua.
01 Madeleine McCann's parents return to U.K. Couple, now suspects, deny involvement in disappearance of 4-year-old 05 McCann's father: 'Heartbreaking' return Sept. 9: The parents of missing four-yearold Madeleine McCann have returned to the U.K. after being named suspects in their daughter's disappearance. Watch Gerry 10 McCann's statement to the press upon the family's arrival on British soil. MSNBC:Updated: 10:02 a.m. ET Sept. 9, 2007 CASTLE DONINGTON, England – A 15 British couple named as suspects in the disappearance of their 4-year-old daughter returned to England Sunday, days after being grilled by Portuguese police about new forensic evidence authorities believe 20 ties them to the case. Kate and Gerry McCann, who have strongly denied any involvement in the disappearance of their daughter Madeleine, flew from Faro in southern Portugal with 25 their 2-year-old twins. The father said the couple wanted “to consider the events of the last few days, which have been so deeply disturbing.” “While it is heartbreaking to return to the 30 U.K. without Madeleine, it does not mean we are giving up the search for her,” Gerry McCann said on the airport tarmac in central England. Fonte: www.cnn.com.br Na estrutura da língua inglesa, o sintagma nominal (SN) é a expressão que dá nome a um referente, ou seja, a algo sobre o qual se diz alguma coisa. Assinale a alternativa em que a expressão NÃO CORRESPONDE a um SN. British soil ( linha 11) Portuguese police ( linha 18) 2 year-old twins ( linha 25) new forensic evidence ( linha 19) England Sunday ( linha 17)
According to the Russian novelist Boris Pasternak, "literature is the art of discovering something extraordinary about ordinary people, and saying with ordinary words something extraordinary". Taking his quote into account, which comment below, from the novel The Rain Before It Falls, by Jonathan Coe, reveals something extraordinary about something ordinary? I wondered at first if she'd been singing along, when I sow the microphone in ger hand. I tried not to disturb anything. there were one or two adjustments I took the liberty of making. I know that everybody smiles for photographs - that's one of the reasons you shoud never trust them. I am reaching the end of my life and I feel an obligation towards you. I shall have to go to Shropshire tomorrow and talk to the lawyer. Start fixing up the funeral.
National stereotypes are almost alwayse negative. An example of a positive stereotype is found in: Chinese do not respect laws and talk loud regardless where they are. Mexicans drink too much tequila and work for little money. Italian men are hot-blooded and/or over-emotional, and live an indulgent life style. North Americans are war-mongering and do not know about other contries. English tolerate eccentric people, drink tea, and are football enthusiasts.
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC NEWS REPORTING OUR WORLD DAILY Dog Genome Mapped, Shows Similarities to Humans Stefan Lovgren for National Geographic News, December 7, 2005 Researchers have finished mapping the genome of the domestic dog. The results show among other things that dogs, mice, and humans share a core set of DNA. A rough sequencing of a poodle's genome was reported in 2003, but it covered only about 75 percent of the genes. This time, "we have sequenced 99 percent of the genome of a female boxer," said Kerstin Lindblad-Toh, a geneticist at the Broad Institute of Harvard University and MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She is the lead author of the dog-gene study, which appears tomorrow in the journal Nature. The researchers also examined DNA from ten different dog breeds to spot genetic differences between them. The comparison could help scientists find the genetic roots of dog behavior and physiology and − perhaps most importantly − help them identify genes that cause diseases in both dogs and humans. Using tissue taken from a boxer named Tasha, scientists have mapped the genome of the domestic dog. (Disponível em http://news.nationalgeographic.com. Acesso em 21/12/2005.) Em relação aos recursos lingüísticos utilizados no texto, assinale a afirmativa INCORRETA. Os vocábulos "dogs", "mice" e "humans" (linha 1) estão no plural. O uso de ´s em "poodle´s" genome (linha 2) indica posse. A palavra "among" (linha 1) pode ser substituída por "between". A expressão verbal "was reported" (linha 2) está empregada na voz passiva. O vocábulo sublinhado em "about" (linha 3) significa aproximadamente.
According to the text, we cannot say that all countries distribute salt. salt is an economic resource. there are many types of salt. we do not survive without salt. nenhuma das anteriores.
Leia o seguinte cartum. A fala do personagem tem como pressuposto o fato de que a professora cometeu um erro de conteúdo. o conteúdo de ciências é descontextualizado. a avaliação da professora foi subjetiva. o número de planetas foi revisto. a educação pode ser prejudicial aos alunos.
Read the text carefully and answer the question according to it. Denmark “world’s happiest nation” Denmark is the happiest country in the world, according to the latest World Values Survey published by the United States National Science Foundation. The annual study surveyed people in 97 countries to discover who is happiest. The survey asked people two simple questions about their happiness and their level of satisfaction with life. Puerto Rico and Colombia completed the top three happiest nations. Zimbabwe was found to be the least happy, with Russia and Iraq also in the bottom 10. The study was directed by University of Michigan professor Ronal Inglehart. He says that unlike other studies, which have focused on economic factors, his research has found that financial prosperity is not the only reason for happiness. “Our research indicates prosperity is linked with happiness. It does contribute,“ he says, “but it is not the most important factor.” “Personal freedom is even more important, and it’s freedom in all kinds of ways. Political freedom, like with democracy and freedom of choice.” A happier world The world is becoming a happier place overall, according to the survey, which has been conducted since 1981. Dr Inglehart says that gender equality is also an indicator of happiness, as is rising social tolerance. He says that both of these things have risen dramatically in recent years. The world’s wealthiest nation, the United States, was found to be the world’s 16th happiest country, behind Switzerland, Canada and Sweden. The study also found that the countries at the bottom of the list all struggle with widespread poverty or authoritarian governments. Zimbabwe, which is gripped by hyperinflation and has recently seen a controversial presidential election marred by violence, was found to be the least happy nation amongst the countries covered by the survey. (Disponível em: http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/pr/fr/-/2/hi/in_depth/7487143.stm. Acesso em: 04 set. 2008) Choose the alternative that completes the following statement. One of the reasons that make the __________ people the happiest in the world is their __________. American ? authoritarian government Danish ? economic prosperity Canadian ? social importance Puerto Rican ? cultural level Canadian ? cultural level
According to the text, the word deemed (line 22) means nearly the same as considered. imagined. neglected. pretended. dreamed.
Nos quadrinhos, conta-se a história de um cachorro treinado como policial e de um gato grãfino cujo proprietário era um assassino que havia enriquecido por meior ilícitos. de um gato desagradável, que perseguia pequenos ratos indefesos e um dia conseguiu assassinar seu próprio dono. de um cachorro treinado especialmente para proteger os cidadão de gatos folgados e de pequenos ratos indefesos. e um gato que tinha uma vida muito confortável porque seu dono era um homem rico, fato que ajudava o gato a cometer atos ilícitos sem ser punido. de um gato e de um cachorro, que levavam vidas distintas, e que um dia se encontraram na rua, próximo de uma prisão, e se tornaram bons amigos.
De acordo com o t exto, medicamentos falsificados, em geral, são consumidos apenas em países pobres e de pouco acesso à internet. encontram dificuldade de comercialização com o aparecimento de novas doenças. são ineficazes e contêm elementos danosos à saúde em sua composição. possuem embalagens atraetes que ludibriam o consumidor. vêm sendo criteriosamente apreendidos pela Organização Mundial da Saúde.
The word does (line 15) can be best interpreted as catalyzes effective action. challenges the adaptation. innovates partnerships. plays an important role. nenhuma das anteriores.
Understand the text that follows and designates the correct alternative: No, I don't look on it as immoral. They go home to their nice little house, don't they, after I've taken their wallet off them? They sit in front of their television all comfortable on their sofa. Where's my television set, I ask you? Where are my sofa and armchairs, no matter how many cheap little wallets I might ever happen to steal? But I never hurt anyone. Never. Not if I can help it. If I do hit a person because he tries to have a go at me, I'm really gentle. I smack him about a bit. I try to get him on the ground, and then I kick him a little bit just to keep him laying there while I get away...They deserve it, anyway – everything they get and more. They think they're so superior when you first come up to them. (Excerto de Entrevista – Daily Mail) The chunk to have a go at (3rd paragraph) may be understood as _________. to confess to report to humiliate to betray to react
According to the text, the era of image communication has begun with the rise of writing the printing press photography advertising television
Japanese researchers have spent five years developing a humanoid robot system that can understand and respond to simultaneous speakers. They posit a restaurant scenario in which the robot is a waiter. When three people stand before the robot and simultaneously order pork cutlet meals or French dinners, the robot understands at about 70 percent comprehension, responding by repeating each order and giving the total price. This process takes less than two seconds and, crucially, requires no prior voice training. Such auditory powers mark a fundamental challenge in artificial intelligence – how to teach machines to pick out significant sounds amid the hubbub. This is known as the cocktail party effect, and most machines do not do any better than humans who have had a few too many martinis. Scientific American, August 2007. De acordo com o texto, pesquisadores japoneses desenvolveram um robô que responde a perguntas e dá conselhos às pessoas, em poucos segundos. recebe treinamento para produzir fala inteligível. consegue adivinhar os desejos das pessoas. tem capacidade de interagir com interlocutores diferentes ao mesmo tempo. interage prontamente com qualquer pessoa, em várias línguas.
Leia atentamente o texto abaixo para responder a questão Why Are People Taller Today Than Yesterday? Tuesday, Jul. 08, 2008 By LAURA BLUE – TIME MAGAZINE Skeletons and written records show that human beings today are inches taller than humans just a century or two ago. And yet even today average heights vary among different nationalities, even among genetically homogenous populations, like the South Koreans and North Koreans. (South Koreans are taller.) John Komlos, professor of economics at the University of Munich and a pioneer in studying human well-being through history, explains what governs human height, and why some populations are taller than others. Q: Why are people taller today than yesterday? A: There are two main reasons. One is that the diet has improved considerably. In spite of some very negative aspects of the diet of industrialized populations, we have much better vitamin, mineral and protein intake than 100 or 200 years ago. As a consequence the body can grow much better. In addition, our health has improved considerably along with medical technology. We have fewer endemic diseases, and fewer epidemic diseases. That is important because an incidence of disease usually means that the nutrients we do consume are not absorbed by the body sufficiently. Diseases lay a claim on our energy intake, so that there is not enough left over for the body to grow. These two factors play a considerable role. We have been increasing in height for about 140 years. Prior to that, there were cycles in height, depending on economic circumstances and agricultural productivity and so forth. We were relatively tall in the Middle Ages, when population densities were relatively low and food supplies were still fairly adequate. The low point was in the 17th century. Frenchmen, for example, were about 162 cm on average [not quite 5 ft. 4 in.], which is extremely small. Only since about the middle of the 19th century there has been a general trend upwards. The American population was the tallest in the world from about the American Revolution to World War II — that’s a long time. (There is a genetic component to [population] height, but there is very little genetic difference between European populations or their overseas offshoots.) America had a very resource-rich environment, with game, fish and wildlife. In fact we have data on disadvantaged people in America, such as slaves. They were obviously among the most mistreated populations in the world, but given the resource abundance — and given the fact that the slave owners needed their work — they had to be fed relatively decently. So slaves were taller than European peasants. It’s no wonder that Europeans were just flooding to America. [Americans today are no longer the tallest people in the world.] After the Second World War, many Western and Northern European countries began to adopt certain favorable social policies. There is universal health insurance in most of these societies — that, of course, makes a difference in health care. You can also consider income inequality in America, since people who are at the low end of the totem pole have considerable adversity making ends meet. I suspect the difference [in height between Americans and Europeans] is due to both diet and health care. Americans today suffer from an additional problem: obesity. If children are too well nourished, then they’re not able to grow optimally. There are certain hormones that control the onset of the adolescent growth spurt and the onset of adolescence. Nutrition is one of the factors, along with genetic and hormonal ones, that are associated with the onset of puberty. Overnutrition prior to adolescence may affect the hormonal system and may produce too much growth hormone prior to puberty, so that sex steroids are produced earlier. And if that comes too early, then the youth will peak out sooner, and will not become as tall in adulthood as someone who had better nutrition. Also, the overload of carbohydrates and fats in a fast-food diet may hinder the consumption of micronutrients essential to growth. A razão para a população americana ser a mais alta do mundo, no período entre a Revolução Americana e a Segunda Guerra Mundial, é um componente genético presente no organismo, que determina a altura. não haver muitos escravos na América. a América possuir um ambiente rico em recursos, com caça, pesca e vida selvagem. não haver diferença genética entre a população americana e a européia. a inexistência de escravos na América.
Inglês - UFG 2010/1 O desafio referido no título pode ser classificado como de natureza cultural. científica. tecnológica. geográfica. ética.
Read the text: The relative pronouns that properly fill in blanks I, II and III, in the text, are: whose, that and which. when, whose and that. what, which and which. which, which and that. where, that and that.
01 Madeleine McCann's parents return to U.K. Couple, now suspects, deny involvement in disappearance of 4-year-old 05 McCann's father: 'Heartbreaking' return Sept. 9: The parents of missing four-yearold Madeleine McCann have returned to the U.K. after being named suspects in their daughter's disappearance. Watch Gerry 10 McCann's statement to the press upon the family's arrival on British soil. MSNBC:Updated: 10:02 a.m. ET Sept. 9, 2007 CASTLE DONINGTON, England – A 15 British couple named as suspects in the disappearance of their 4-year-old daughter returned to England Sunday, days after being grilled by Portuguese police about new forensic evidence authorities believe 20 ties them to the case. Kate and Gerry McCann, who have strongly denied any involvement in the disappearance of their daughter Madeleine, flew from Faro in southern Portugal with 25 their 2-year-old twins. The father said the couple wanted “to consider the events of the last few days, which have been so deeply disturbing.” “While it is heartbreaking to return to the 30 U.K. without Madeleine, it does not mean we are giving up the search for her,” Gerry McCann said on the airport tarmac in central England. Fonte: www.cnn.com.br Analise as afirmações abaixo. I. Na expressão their daughter´s disappearance ( linhas 8 e 9), o pronome their funciona como objeto. II. Na expressão their 4-year-old daughter ( linha 16), o pronome their refere-se aos pais de Madeleine. III. Na expressão authorities believe ties them to the case (linhas 19 e 20), o vocábulo them é classificado como pronome possessivo. IV. Na expressão we are giving up the search ( linha 31), o pronome we funciona como sujeito. V. Na expressão the search for her (linha 31), o pronome her é um adjetivo possessivo. Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. Somente I, III e V são falsas. Somente I, IV e V são verdadeiras. Somente II, IV e V são verdadeiras. Somente II, III e IV são falsas. Somente I, III e IV são verdadeiras.
Bades on the lyrics, we can say that the scene shows Eliza Doolitle contamplating a warm home and a nice partner. thip to a beautiful countryside. good restaurant with lots of desserts. well-paid job in a comfortable shop. company to go out with in the evenings.
Texto I CALL FOR BRAZIL ABORTION DEBATE 01 Many abortions take place in illegal clinics, putting women’s lives at risk 04 The newly-appointed minister of health in Brazil has called for a wide-ranging debate on the issue of abortion 07 Under present law, abortion is only permitted when the life of the mother is at risk, or in the case of rape. The minister, 10 Jose Gomes Temporao, said in a newspaper interview he wanted to move the issue on from religious and moral contexts to a matter of health. But his remarks are thought certain to prompt a 15 firm response from the Roman Catholic Church in Brazil. 'Superficial' debate Mr Temporao says that around 200,000 women are treated for complications 20 following abortions every year, the vast majority of them believed to have taken place in illegal clinics involving a high degree of risk for the women. An opinion poll released at the weekend 25 suggests 65% of Brazilians are against changing the existing law. Mr Temporao says that result is not surprising as he believes the question has always been debated in a superficial way. 30 He told the newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo he wants Brazil to treat the discussion as a matter of public health. But there are already signs the minister can expect a vigorous response from the 35 Catholic Church, which is preparing for the arrival of Pope Benedict next month. On Friday the Archbishop of Rio de Janeiro, Cardinal Eusebio Oscar Scheid, interrupted an Easter passion play in the 40 city, walking on stage to tell the 10,000 strong audience that the massacre of innocents could not be allowed. While the Brazilian government has no official position on a referendum, it seems likely that debate on the issue will increase in the months ahead. Fonte: BBC News Monday, 9 April 2007, UK. Do debate sobre o aborto, o ministro pode esperar a seguinte reação: manifestações de movimentos anti-aborto. manifestações de grupos religiosos conservadores. resistência dos partidos de oposição ao governo. obstáculos de natureza jurídica. uma firme reação da Igreja Católica Romana.
Responda à questão com base no cartum a seguir: É exemplo de agramaticalidade característica da linguagem oral: ?You know what I wonder?? ?Sometimes I wonder...? ? ... pleased with me.? ?Do you ever wonder...?? ?He just has to be!?
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC NEWS REPORTING OUR WORLD DAILY Dog Genome Mapped, Shows Similarities to Humans Stefan Lovgren for National Geographic News, December 7, 2005 Researchers have finished mapping the genome of the domestic dog. The results show among other things that dogs, mice, and humans share a core set of DNA. A rough sequencing of a poodle's genome was reported in 2003, but it covered only about 75 percent of the genes. This time, "we have sequenced 99 percent of the genome of a female boxer," said Kerstin Lindblad-Toh, a geneticist at the Broad Institute of Harvard University and MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She is the lead author of the dog-gene study, which appears tomorrow in the journal Nature. The researchers also examined DNA from ten different dog breeds to spot genetic differences between them. The comparison could help scientists find the genetic roots of dog behavior and physiology and − perhaps most importantly − help them identify genes that cause diseases in both dogs and humans. Using tissue taken from a boxer named Tasha, scientists have mapped the genome of the domestic dog. (Disponível em http://news.nationalgeographic.com. Acesso em 21/12/2005.) No texto, a expressão perhaps most importantly (linhas 10) destaca a relevância da informação posterior . expressa dúvida sobre o resultado da pesquisa. revela a possibilidade de novas descobertas. indica a certeza dos dados examinados. define o objetivo do estudo.
O sentimento predominante no trecho narrado é de debilitação. amargura. angústia. arrependimento. ódio.
Read the cartoon. Charlie Brown’s anger is firstly showed in his eyes. shout. cry. words. hand-writing.
Brazilian ethanol is not causing deforestation Ethanol production in Brazil is not causing deforestation in the Amazon region, says Peter Zuurbier, Associate Professor and Director of the Latin America Office of Wageningen University, the world’s leading center of expertise on tropical agriculture. According to him, the notion often held by NGO’s that sugarcane is displacing cattle and soybean production into the Amazon is inaccurate. “The real problem lies in illegal deforestation and lack of property rights, as around 50 percent of the Amazon region has disputed titles and this is an invitation for timber companies,” he says. Prof. Zuurbier tries to explain a dynamic process between illegal activities in the Amazon rainforest and the expansion of agricultural lands towards that region. NGO’s often state that sugarcane production is displacing cattle and soybean production towards and into the Amazon, burning down the area to make it suitable for agriculture and pastures. According to Zuurbier, however, the process is slightly different. “Well organized groups and corporations with questionable land titles, but also official land owners began to chop down large acreages of forest to trade timber, both legally and illegally,” he says. “Usually, after the empty strips of land were abandoned, cattle owners would move into these cheap lands. However, after 3 to 4 years of cattle breeding, the thin soil of the Amazon is completely useless without any form of fertilization and livestock owners usually move into the next abandoned area. Soybean farmers meanwhile replace the livestock in these areas, recognizing the opportunity to fertilize the area for soybean production.” Prof. Zuurbier says the cause of deforestation and agricultural production in or near the Amazon, is simply illegal deforestation itself. According to him, the fact that Brazil still has questionable land titles, no set-aside policy and great difficulty to enforce existing laws to counter illegal timber trade, are the real reasons why the Amazon rainforest is in danger. (Ethanol Statistics - January 21st 2008, http://www.sucre-ethique.org/ Wageningen-expert-Brazilian) Indique a alternativa em que os termos denotam, respectivamente, o mesmo significado dos sublinhados na sentença: The real problem lies in illegal deforestation and lack of property rights. reveals ... interruption contains ... adequacy aims ... deficiency rests ... agreement consists ... deficiency
Quiet! I’m Having Surgery! by Seena Samuel In the hospital, you need uninterrupted sleep as you recover, but hospital noises can be as loud as a jackhammer. So ____________ hospitals are taking steps to reduce noise pollution. At Montefiore Medical Center in New York City, administrative nurse manager Elodia Mercier implemented a SHHH (Silent Hospitals Help Healing) plan after patients rated noise control as important to a satisfactory visit. She measured decibel ranges and identified sources of excessive noise (shift changes, squeaky carts). Signs now line the hallways urging patients, visitors and staff to keep it down. Staffers put beepers on vibrate mode, and the volume on the intercom was lowered. Within two weeks, patients reported better sleep, and the staff said they felt less hectic and stressed. For more information, visit montefiore.org. Reader’s Digest In order to reduce noise pollution in some hospitals patients have been interrupting doctors less often than before. visitors can?t use their jackhammers in hospital halls anymore. notes have been spread all over the corridors requesting silence. visitors can only plug into the net using their cell phones on vibrate mode. staff members have been obliged to report the amount of time they spend sleeping.
ENVIRONMENT-BRAZIL: The Amazon Jungle as Vast Savannah Mario Osava - IPS/IFEJ RIO DE JANEIRO, Apr 10 (IPS) - An Amazon region that is less lush, where the forest will be replaced by grasslands, is the image drawn by the latest scientific reports in which meteorologists are taking the lead, going beyond even the direst warning of ecologists. If current trends continue, deforestation, which in the last 30 years claimed nearly 600,000 square kilometres in the Brazilian Amazon alone -- an area equivalent to Germany and Italy combined -- will have destroyed more than 30 percent of the jungle by 2050, according to the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). This process could "convert into savannah" as much as 60 percent of the Amazon region, says a 2003 study by Carlos Nobre and Marcos Oyama, of Brazil's National Institute of Space Research (INPE). Global warming "will greatly amplify" those effects, says the IPCC in the second volume of its 2007 report. Average temperatures in the Amazon region could rise an average of 8 degrees Celsius by the end of the century if the climate change factors continue, says meteorologist José Antonio Marengo, in a report presented to Brazil's Environment Ministry in February. In some areas, the average temperature could increase as much as 12 degrees, said Philip Fearnside, a U.S. ecologist and Amazon expert who for the last 30 years has been working with Brazil's National Institute for Amazonian Research, INPA. This will happen if nothing is done to contain deforestation or global climate change, he added. Warmer temperatures mean that trees consume more water to carry out photosynthesis, which is why it has such a big effect on forests. But climate change's great threat to the Amazon is that it could generate a permanent El Niño phenomenon (a now cyclical warming of surface waters in the Pacific Ocean), manifested in more heat and longer periods of scant rains north of the Amazon River, says Fearnside, also a contributor of the IPCC report. That was the case in 1997-1998, when drought triggered devastating fires in the northern Brazilian state of Roraima. And in 2006, a moderate El Niño greatly curbed rainfall along the Rio Negro, a main tributary of the Amazon River. Fonte: www.ipsnews.net/print.asp?idnews=37288. Adaptado. O fenômeno El Niño poderá ter um ciclo permanente na bacia do rio Amazonas, principal afluente do Rio Negro. causará um aquecimento maior nas águas do Oceano Pacífico e mais chuvas na cabeceira do rio Amazonas. fará com que chova mais nas margens do rio Negro e menos em Roraima. repetirá o que ocorreu de 1997 a 2006, quando houve uma seca que provocou incêndios florestais. consiste em um aquecimento cíclico das águas superficiais do Oceano Pacífico.
O texto apresenta uma reflexão sobre a construção e a veiculação de valores na era da imagem. descrição de estratégias publicitárias para impor comportamentos. justificativa para a presença em massa das imagens nos meios de comunicação. desconstrução dos efeitos históricos das revoluções no campo da cultura. análise comparativa de diferentes usos das imagens através dos tempos.
Inglês - UFG 2010/1 O texto apresenta uma informação de natureza conceitual. exposição de um acontecimento singular. explicação para um fenômeno social. opinião sobre uma prática comum. resposta a uma mensagem pessoal.
HOW MUCH CAN SCHOOLS DO? In the fall of 2005, some 17 months before Cho Seung- Hui went on his killing spree at Virginia Tech, his behavior was so disturbing that his creative-writing professor had him removed from her class. Later that semester, two female students complained separately about what one called his “annoying” advances, and after an acquaintance warned that Cho might be suicidal, he was detained for several hours, evaluated at a local mental-health facility and released. When it comes to the complex intersection of campus safety and mental health, the questions of what counts as sufficient warning signs and how universities should respond to them often end up in court. Move too quickly by, say, suspending a depressed student for posing a threat upon himself or others, and schools can – and do – get sued for discriminating against the disabled. Julie Rawe; Time Magazine, April 30, 2007 De acordo com o texto, Cho era um aluno criativo nas aulas de redação. dois alunos da escola técnica foram molestados por Cho. as escolas temem tomar decisões precipitadas em situações como a referida no texto. Cho foi detido diversas vezes. as escolas sempre analisam todas as ameaças à sua segurança.
In 1993, the dawn of the Internet age, the liberating anonymity of the online world was captured in a wellknown New Yorker cartoon. One dog, sitting at a computer, tells another: “On the Internet, nobody knows you’re a dog.” Fifteen years later, that anonymity is gone. Technology companies have long used “cookies,” little bits of tracking software slipped into your computer, and other means, to record the Web sites you visit, the ads you click on, even the words you enter in search engines – information that some hold onto forever. They’re not telling you they’re doing it, and they’re not asking permission. Internet service providers (I.S.P.’s) are now getting into the act. Because they control your connection, they can keep track of everything you do online, and there have been reports that I.S.P.’s may have started to sell the information they collect. The driving force behind this prying is commerce. The big growth area in online advertising right now is “behavioral targeting.” Web sites can charge a premium if they are able to tell the maker of an expensive sports car that its ads will appear on Web pages clicked on by upperincome, middle-aged men. The New York Times, April 5th 2008. ISP = Provedores de serviço de internet. De acordo com o texto, a evolução da internet nos últimos quinze anos permite concluir que o foco principal do comércio eletrônico são homens de meia idade. a liberdade de expressão é o bem mais cultuado no mundo digital. a supressão de ?cookies? é um grande problema das empresas de tecnologia. as buscas dos usuários na internet são previsíveis. a vigilância a que somos submetidos é resultado de interesses comerciais.
SMALL BRIBES, BIG CHALLENGE Extent and nature of petty corruption in South Africa Although grand corruption like that associated with the arms deal receives most media attention, petty corruption can be as damaging if left unchecked. According to the ISS 2003 National Victims of Crime survey, petty corruption was the second most prevalent crime in the country after housebreaking. Of most concern is that many citizens do not know how to report corruption, do not believe that doing so will change anything, and, despite good whistleblower provisions, are afraid of the consequences if they do report. It should be noted from the outset that many incidents of corruption or attempted corruption were probably not reported to the survey. Some victims may be aware of their perceived ‘complicity’ as the bribe payer (albeit on demand, possibly accompanied with the threat of withholding a service) and would worry that by answering the questions they might implicate themselves. Others may not know that being asked for a bribe in return for a service constitutes a crime, and may instead see this as a ‘normal’ transaction fee required to ensure the delivery of services. Similarly, requests for ‘favours’ and ‘gifts’ may be overlooked as a form of corruption. These acts typically involve the purchase of a cold drink, alcohol or a meal in return for speeding up a service or the efficient delivery of a service. Some members of the public may regard this as an accepted form of gratitude. The view that it would not change anything, and the lack of knowledge about where and how to report (which together represent two thirds of responses) could be addressed in the short term by a sustained awareness campaign by the public service. This should be geared towards informing citizens of why they need to counter corruption, thus popularising a whistleblowing culture, as well as ensuring that people know what channels to use to report (i.e. through national hotlines). A dedicated public education campaign is needed to address the lack of awareness about what constitutes corruption and how to report it. Consensus among the elite will not be enough to stop corrupt practices. Ultimately broad public participation is required to promote a culture of whistleblowing in the public and private sectors, but also to ensure that corruption is prevented in future. Hennie van Vuuren, Institute for Security Studies hvanvuuren@issct.org.za Access: Apr. 2006. (Adapted) This text contains all the following topics, EXCEPT corruption effects. army transactions. research findings. small irregularities. none of the alternatives.
Maya Angelou is hailed as one of the great voices of American literature and as a remarkable Renaissance woman. Being a poet, educator, historian, best-selling author, actress, playwright, civil-rights activist, producer and director, Dr. Angelou continues to travel the world making appearances, and spreading her legendary wisdom. Born April 4, 1928 in Saint Louis, Missouri, Maya Angelou`s given name was Marguerite Johnson. In her early twenties she was given the name Maya Angelou after her debut performance as a dancer at the Purple Onion Cabaret. The author`s father, Bailey Johnson, was a naval dietician, and her mother was Vivian Johnson. She has one sibling, a brother named Bailey after their father. When she was about three years old, their parents divorced and the children were sent to live with their grandmother in Stamps, Arkansas. Angelou claims that her grandmother, whom she called “momma”, had a deep-brooding love that hung over everything she touched. Growing up in Stamps, Angelou learned what it was like to be a black girl in a world whose boundaries were set by whites. She learned what it meant to have to wear old hand-me-downs from a white woman. And she also learned the humiliation of being refused treatment by a white dentist. As a child, she always dreamed of waking to find her “nappy black hair” metamorphosed to a long blond bob, because she felt life was better for a white girl than for a black girl. Despite the odds, her grandmother instilled pride in Angelou with religion as an important element in their home. After five years of being apart from their mother, the children were sent back to Saint Louis to be with her. This move eventually took a turn for the worst, when Angelou was raped by her mother`s boyfriend. The devastating act of violence committed against her caused her to become mute for nearly five years. She was sent back to Stamps because no one could handle the grim state Angelou was in. With the constant help of a woman named Mrs. Flowers, Angelou began to evolve into the young girl who had possessed the pride and confidence she once had. Again in 1940, her brother and her were sent to San Francisco to live with their mother. Life with her mother was a constant disorder. Living with her mother soon became too much for her, so she ran away to be with her father and his girlfriend in their rundown trailer. Finding that life with him was no better, she ended up living in a graveyard of wrecked cars that mainly housed homeless children. It took her a month to get back home to her mother. Angelou`s dysfunctional childhood, spent moving back and forth between her mother and grandmother, caused her to struggle with maturity. She became determined to prove she was a woman and began to rush toward maturity. Angelou soon found herself pregnant, and at the age of sixteen she delivered her son,Guy. (http:voices.cla.umn.edu vg) In the sentence, “Despite the odds, her grandmother instilled pride in Angelou with religion as an important element in their home”, the underlined expression can be replaced by: Undoubtedly In spite of Angelou`s lack of faith Above all things Regardless of the negative circumstances Taking into consideration the importance of religion
Inglês - UFG 2010/1 avoided fast food restaurants. tried to cut fat intake. managed to exercise outdoors. had three meals a day. gained quite a lot of weight.
In the text, it is possible to find how victims are normally abused. what the rate of abuse is in Michigan. what the consequences of abuse are. which professionals can help victims of abuse. how victims of abuse can be helped.
According to the doctor, his patient should take more medicine. avoid stressful situations. work fewer hours. exercise more often. change his eating habits.
GLOBAL WARMING On Feb. 2, 2007, the United Nations scientific panel studying climate change declared that the evidence of a warming trend is “unequivocal”, and that human activity has “very likely” been the driving force in that change over the last 50 years. The last report by the group, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in 2001, had found that humanity had “likely” played a role. The greenhouse effect has been part of the earth’s workings since its earliest days. Gases like carbon dioxide and methane allow sunlight to reach the earth, but prevent some of the resulting heat from radiating back out into space. Without the greenhouse effect, the planet would never have warmed enough to allow life to form. But as ever larger amounts of carbon dioxide have been released along with the development of industrial economies, the atmosphere has grown warmer at an accelerating rate. Since 1970, temperatures have gone up at nearly three times the average for the 20th century. Global Warming Science - The New York Times, May 6, 2007 The question which can be adequately answered with information provided by the text is: What will the consequences be if carbon dioxide concentration reaches twice the level of two centuries ago? Who has played a central role in raising the average surface temperature of the earth? Why are the sea levels likely to rise on the years to come? When was the first global warming-related decision released? How many groups have banded together to make calls for regulation of greenhouse gases?
Texto II BRAZIL FLIGHTS CRIPPLED BY STRIKE 01 Airports have resumed flights in Brazil after air traffic controllers suspended a strike called to protest about their working conditions. 05 Government negotiators and trade unions reached an agreement to end the strike, which briefly halted all flights out of all of the country's 49 airports. Action had spread across Brazil after air 10 traffic controllers began a hunger strike in the capital, Brasilia. Thousands of passengers were left stranded by the protest. The striking controllers had said they had 15 lost all confidence in their commanders and the equipment at their disposal. Air traffic controllers in Brazil have staged similar protests since last September, when 154 people were killed in the country's 20 worst air disaster. The BBC's Tim Hirsch in Sao Paulo says internal flights have been in a state of chaos since the crash. Fonte: BBC NEWS, 31 March 2007 – UK Das frases abaixo, indique a que NÃO está na voz passiva: [...] 154 people were killed in the country's worst air disaster. [?] thousands of passengers were left tranded by the protest. Brazil flights crippled by strike. The striking controllers had said they had lost all confidence in their commanders. All of the country's main airports were closed for take-offs.
Coasting on Past Glory The Amazon is still largely intact, but the future hinges on decisions being made now. From the window of a Boeing, few countries are greener than Brazil. Since much of this vast territory in the heart of South America is still unpeopled and unblemished, it’s not surprising that Brazil looks good against the backdrop of a mistreated planet. It ranks 34th of 149 nations in Yale and Columbia’s Environmental Performance Index – greener than Ireland (35th) and the United States (39th). But how long will the country be able to hold on to this favorable score? To get a better look, you have to go to 9,000 meters, the altitude from which the NASA remote-sensing satellites sweep the earth. Every year, scientists at Brazil’s National Institute for Space Research (INPE) pore over satellite images to produce the most detailed survey of deforestation of any nation in the world. Such candor has won Brazil kudos, but also criticism. Brazil is the fourth biggest contributor of greenhouse gases globally, of which 75 percent comes from the felling and burning of forests. So when data released by INPE in late May showed that 5,850 square kilometers of forest (an area larger than Brunei) had disappeared from August 2007 to April 2008 – a 17 percent spike from the year before – the planet took notice. “Brazil has a fantastic endowment from nature but is failing when it comes to managing it,” says Judicael Clevelario Junior, head of environmental studies at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), the census bureau. Brazil’s green laurels are not an illusion. Four fifths of its electric power comes from hydroelectric plants. It is the world leader in biofuels – nearly 30 percent of its cars run on ethanol. The trouble is that these virtues reflect sound decisions made in the 1970s, during the ambitious military government of Gen. Ernesto Geisel. Brazil has not always followed them up. (…) Fortunately, Brazil has options. Its booming economy is not beholden to coal-fired power plants, and the rain forest is still largely intact. “Brazil has a rare opportunity to transform itself into a rich country and still maintain its natural capital,” says Clevelario Jr. If it can go back to its old habit of making the right environmental moves. (Newsweek, July 14th 2008, http://www.newsweek.com/id/143696) Escolha a alternativa correta. O Brasil sempre terá lugar de destaque entre os países verdes, uma vez que grande parte de seu território permanece desabitada. Essa afirmação é confirmada pela avaliação de desempenho ambiental feita por Yale e Colúmbia. Segundo a NASA, o Brasil tem lugar de destaque entre os países verdes, estando 35 posições à frente da Irlanda e 39 à frente dos Estados Unidos, entre as 149 nações avaliadas quanto ao seu desempenho ambiental. Vistos da janela de um Boeing, Brasil, Irlanda e Estados Unidos têm lugares de destaque entre os países verdes. Esse foi o resultado de uma pesquisa de desempenho ambiental, realizada por Yale e Colúmbia. Atualmente, o Brasil tem lugar de destaque entre os países verdes, estando à frente da Irlanda e dos Estados Unidos, entre as 149 nações pesquisadas. No entanto, a NASA afirma que não terá condições de manter essa posição por muito tempo. Atualmente, o Brasil tem lugar de destaque entre os países verdes, estando uma posição à frente da Irlanda e cinco à frente dos Estados Unidos, entre as nações relacionadas por Yale e Colúmbia quanto ao seu desempenho ambiental.
Coasting on Past Glory The Amazon is still largely intact, but the future hinges on decisions being made now. From the window of a Boeing, few countries are greener than Brazil. Since much of this vast territory in the heart of South America is still unpeopled and unblemished, it’s not surprising that Brazil looks good against the backdrop of a mistreated planet. It ranks 34th of 149 nations in Yale and Columbia’s Environmental Performance Index – greener than Ireland (35th) and the United States (39th). But how long will the country be able to hold on to this favorable score? To get a better look, you have to go to 9,000 meters, the altitude from which the NASA remote-sensing satellites sweep the earth. Every year, scientists at Brazil’s National Institute for Space Research (INPE) pore over satellite images to produce the most detailed survey of deforestation of any nation in the world. Such candor has won Brazil kudos, but also criticism. Brazil is the fourth biggest contributor of greenhouse gases globally, of which 75 percent comes from the felling and burning of forests. So when data released by INPE in late May showed that 5,850 square kilometers of forest (an area larger than Brunei) had disappeared from August 2007 to April 2008 – a 17 percent spike from the year before – the planet took notice. “Brazil has a fantastic endowment from nature but is failing when it comes to managing it,” says Judicael Clevelario Junior, head of environmental studies at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), the census bureau. Brazil’s green laurels are not an illusion. Four fifths of its electric power comes from hydroelectric plants. It is the world leader in biofuels – nearly 30 percent of its cars run on ethanol. The trouble is that these virtues reflect sound decisions made in the 1970s, during the ambitious military government of Gen. Ernesto Geisel. Brazil has not always followed them up. (…) Fortunately, Brazil has options. Its booming economy is not beholden to coal-fired power plants, and the rain forest is still largely intact. “Brazil has a rare opportunity to transform itself into a rich country and still maintain its natural capital,” says Clevelario Jr. If it can go back to its old habit of making the right environmental moves. (Newsweek, July 14th 2008, http://www.newsweek.com/id/143696) Com base no texto, indique a alternativa que completa a sentença: Brazil is ................ than Ireland, and ................ than the United States. greener ... more greener green ... greener less green ? much greener much greener ? greener greener ... much greener
Leia os trechos do seguinte texto e responda à questão. The Frog Prince, Continued The Princess kissed the frog. He turned into a prince. And they lived happily ever after… Well, let’s just say they lived sort of happily for a long time. Okay, so they weren’t so happy. In fact, they were miserable. “Stop sticking your tongue out like that,” nagged the Princess. “How come you never want to go down to the pond anymore?” whined the Prince. The Prince and Princess were so unhappy. They didn´t know what to do. […] The Prince kissed the Princess. They both turned into frogs. And they hopped off happily ever after. The End. SCIESZKA, J. The Frog Prince, Continued. Illustrated by Steve Johnson. New York: Penguin Books, 1994. As frases introduzidas pelos termos And, Well, Okay e In fact (linhas de 3 a 7) indicam apelo emotivo, resultante da sonoridade, que aproxima o leitor. gradação que estabelece uma interação bemhumorada com o leitor. passagem temporal, típica da linguagem dos contos de fadas. oralidade que caracteriza socialmente as personagens. coloquialidade que transporta o leitor para a ordem do maravilhoso.
GLOBAL WARMING On Feb. 2, 2007, the United Nations scientific panel studying climate change declared that the evidence of a warming trend is “unequivocal”, and that human activity has “very likely” been the driving force in that change over the last 50 years. The last report by the group, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in 2001, had found that humanity had “likely” played a role. The greenhouse effect has been part of the earth’s workings since its earliest days. Gases like carbon dioxide and methane allow sunlight to reach the earth, but prevent some of the resulting heat from radiating back out into space. Without the greenhouse effect, the planet would never have warmed enough to allow life to form. But as ever larger amounts of carbon dioxide have been released along with the development of industrial economies, the atmosphere has grown warmer at an accelerating rate. Since 1970, temperatures have gone up at nearly three times the average for the 20th century. Global Warming Science - The New York Times, May 6, 2007 “Likely” indicates permission. necessity. advisability. probability. preference.
In 1993, the dawn of the Internet age, the liberating anonymity of the online world was captured in a wellknown New Yorker cartoon. One dog, sitting at a computer, tells another: “On the Internet, nobody knows you’re a dog.” Fifteen years later, that anonymity is gone. Technology companies have long used “cookies,” little bits of tracking software slipped into your computer, and other means, to record the Web sites you visit, the ads you click on, even the words you enter in search engines – information that some hold onto forever. They’re not telling you they’re doing it, and they’re not asking permission. Internet service providers (I.S.P.’s) are now getting into the act. Because they control your connection, they can keep track of everything you do online, and there have been reports that I.S.P.’s may have started to sell the information they collect. The driving force behind this prying is commerce. The big growth area in online advertising right now is “behavioral targeting.” Web sites can charge a premium if they are able to tell the maker of an expensive sports car that its ads will appear on Web pages clicked on by upperincome, middle-aged men. The New York Times, April 5th 2008. ISP = Provedores de serviço de internet. Segundo o texto, os provedores de internet mantêm sigilo sobre os hábitos de navegação e comportamentos dos usuários. têm dificuldade de bloquear a invasão de programas espiões em nossos computadores. pedem autorização para indicar o endereço do usuário a terceiros, como sites de comércio eletrônico. obtêm dados a respeito de nossas ações na internet, havendo suspeita de que eles os vendem. cobram pela utilização de alguns sites de vendas, a eles conveniados.
Leia as seguintes placas e responda à questão. Os dois textos têm em comum o fato de expressarem uma ameaça. um apelo. uma promessa. um conselho. uma ordem.
Inglês - UFG 2011 Based on the argument presented in the text, an unconditional declaration of love is: I love you, but unfortunately you're too jealous. I love you, but family interference is very annoying. I love you, but there is no trust between us. I love you, but our constant arguments worry me. I love you, but above all I respect you.
Salad Poem (for Henri Rousseau le Douanier) The sun is shining outside Henri Rousseau (Gentil Rousseau) The sky is blue like your skies I want to paint the salad on the table bright crisp green red purple lettuce and radishes, ham and tomatoes Paint them like your jungles Gentle Rousseau I want to paint All things bright and beautiful All salads great and small I want to make Blue skies bluer Green grass greener Pink flowers brighter Like you Henri Rousseau Adrian Henri Which of the following groups of words from TEXT only represents colours: purple, crisp, shining, blue, green. red, skies, purple, pink, green. green, red, skies, shining, pink. blue, green, red, purple, pink. bright, blue, red, small, purple.
Quiet! I’m Having Surgery! by Seena Samuel In the hospital, you need uninterrupted sleep as you recover, but hospital noises can be as loud as a jackhammer. So ____________ hospitals are taking steps to reduce noise pollution. At Montefiore Medical Center in New York City, administrative nurse manager Elodia Mercier implemented a SHHH (Silent Hospitals Help Healing) plan after patients rated noise control as important to a satisfactory visit. She measured decibel ranges and identified sources of excessive noise (shift changes, squeaky carts). Signs now line the hallways urging patients, visitors and staff to keep it down. Staffers put beepers on vibrate mode, and the volume on the intercom was lowered. Within two weeks, patients reported better sleep, and the staff said they felt less hectic and stressed. For more information, visit montefiore.org. Reader’s Digest The expression that fills in the blank properly is: the big deal of the large handful of a fewer of much of a growing number of
Inglês - UFG 2011 Which narrative element does Chimamanda Adichie mention about her first stories? The description of the people. The sequence of events. The struggle between opposing forces. The social themes focused on. The different points of view.
Political corruption From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia In broad terms, political corruption is the misuse of public (governmental) power for illegitimate, usually secret, private advantage. All forms of government are susceptible to political corruption. Forms of corruption vary, but the most common are patronage, bribery, extortion, influence peddling, fraud, embezzlement, and nepotism. While corruption often facilitates criminal enterprise such as drug trafficking, money laundering, and criminal prostitution, it is not restricted to these organized crime activities, and it does not always support or shield other crimes. What constitutes corruption differs depending on the country or jurisdiction. Certain political funding practices that are legal in one place may be illegal in another. In some countries, police and prosecutors have broad discretion over who to arrest and charge, and the line between discretion and corruption can be difficult to draw, as in racial profiling. In countries with strong interest group politics, practices that could easily constitute corruption elsewhere are sometimes sanctified as official group preferences. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_corruption#Bribery:_Bribe-takers_ and_bribe-givers Access: Apr. 2006.(Adapted) Both occurrences of the word “it” in lines 7 and 8 refer to criminal enterprise. organized crime. political corruption. racial illegitimacy. none of the alternatives.
Observe o texto a seguir: Analisando-se as linguagens verbal e não-verbal do texto, depreende-se que a morte de inocentes em atentados à bomba é destaque em jornal londrino. um suspeito dos ataques terroristas em Londres foi identificado pela Scotland Yard. os britânicos exigem punição do chefe da polícia de Londres, por erro cometido. a política de segurança da Scotland Yard é criticada pelos britânicos. a Scotland Yard reprimiu uma manifestação contra as novas diretrizes antiterroristas.
Read the text According to the text, it’s NOT correct that missing teeth can be replaced by real gum in 2 months. people may now expect to have real teeth in the future. steam cells are the key element in the reconstruction of real teeth. experiments have already happened and new ones will soon take place. the replacement of dentures will be under way in no time.
What is gender anyway? […] History and science suggest that gender is more subtle and complicated than anatomy. (It’s separate from sexual orientation, too, which determines which sex we’re attracted to.) Gender helps us organize the world into two boxes, his and hers, and gives us a way of quickly sizing up every person we see on the street. “Gender is a way of making the world secure,” says feminist scholar Judith Butler. Though some scholars like Butler consider gender largely a social construct, others increasingly see it as a complex interplay of biology, genes, hormones and culture. Genesis set up the initial dichotomy: “Male and female he created them.” And historically, the differences between men and women were thought to be distinct. […] But, as society changed, the stereotypes faded. […] Still, even the most diehard feminist would likely agree that we are not exactly alike. In many cases, our habits, our posture, and even cultural identifiers like the way we dress set us apart. Now as transgender people become more visible and challenge the old boundaries, they’ve given voice to another debate–whether gender comes in just two flavors. […] “Transgender” is an umbrella term that includes anyone whose gender identity or expression differs from the sex of their birth–whether they have surgery or not. [...]However, male or female, we all start life looking pretty much the same. Newsweek, May 21st, 2007. “Transgender” in TEXT refers to people: who undergo surgery to change the sex of their birth. whose gender expression is different from the sex of their birth. who are heterosexual. who are repelled by sexuality. who respect gender dichotomy.
assumes girly jobs. raises his children on his own. refuses to do the housework. talks about his intimate feelings. discusses his role in the familly.
The organization of this text is in the form of arguments for and against. hyphotesis and proof. problem and solution. sequence of descriptions. nennuma das anteriores.
O texto é um anúncio de um centro de adestramento de cães de raça. uma loja para compra e venda de cães. uma empresa especializada em cuidar de cães. uma clínica para quaisquer pequenos animais. um abrigo temporário para cães abandonados.
Which statement contradictis the myth that domestic violence only happens to poor women and women of colour? The most dangerous time for a woman who is being abused is when she tries to leave home. Alcohol use, drug use, and stress go along with domestic violence, but they do not cause violence. no one deserves to be abused. period. The only person responsible for the abuse is the abuser. Persons of any class, culture, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, age, and sex can be victims of domestic violence. Michigan State Police records from 1997 show that a woman is killed by a partner or former partner once a week in Michigan.
Inglês - UFG 2010/1 The position of the author can be summarized in: Young people should use the internet with less frequency. Lies in real life can become more natural as a result of lies on the internet. Adolescents should not reveal their identity on the internet. Close relationships can be established if people tell the truth on the internet. Lying on the internet are not told for malicious reasons.
Japanese researchers have spent five years developing a humanoid robot system that can understand and respond to simultaneous speakers. They posit a restaurant scenario in which the robot is a waiter. When three people stand before the robot and simultaneously order pork cutlet meals or French dinners, the robot understands at about 70 percent comprehension, responding by repeating each order and giving the total price. This process takes less than two seconds and, crucially, requires no prior voice training. Such auditory powers mark a fundamental challenge in artificial intelligence – how to teach machines to pick out significant sounds amid the hubbub. This is known as the cocktail party effect, and most machines do not do any better than humans who have had a few too many martinis. Scientific American, August 2007. O texto refere-se a “the cocktail party effect”, que é metáfora para descrever a dificuldade de selecionar sons relevantes, a que prestar atenção, em locais com muita gente. escolher pessoas importantes com quem conversar em festas. circular e se aproximar de pessoas em coquetéis. beber só um pouco para conseguir interagir com outros convidados. conversar casualmente sobre diversos temas.
POLICEMAN JAILED FOR RIO MASSACRE 01 A Brazilian policeman has been given a 543-year jail sentence for a March 2005 shooting spree that left 29 people dead in poor suburbs of Rio de Janeiro. 05 Carlos Jorge Carvalho, who pleaded not guilty and says he will appeal, is the first of five officers to stand trial over the socalled Baixada massacre. The five are accused of driving through 10 the area shooting people for two hours. The sentence is one of the harshest in recent years against a police officer convicted of a violent crime. Correspondents say it sends a message 15 that the courts will not tolerate acts of impunity by the police. The Baixada massacre was one of the worst seen in Rio - a city used to high levels of violence. 20 Carvalho was found guilty of 29 homicides, one attempted murder and forming a criminal gang. He will effectively serve up to 30 years - the maximum term under Brazilian law. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/5280892.stm Analise a alternativa INCORRETA. A sentença do crime foi considerada uma das mais severas dos últimos anos contra policiais condenados por crimes violentos. A sentença retrata um recado da justiça brasileira dizendo não à tolerância a crimes efetuados por policiais. A sentença retrata uma mensagem de indignação da justiça por crimes efetuados contra policiais. O massacre da baixada foi considerado um dos piores crimes, elevando ainda mais o índice de violência no Rio de Janeiro. Carlos Jorge foi condenado por 29 mortes e por formação de quadrilha totalizando uma pena de no máximo 30 anos.
“Researchers and public-health officials have long understood that to maintain a given weight, energy in (calories consumed) must equal energy out (calories expended). But then they learned that genes were important, too, and that for some people this formula was tilted in a direction that led to weight gain. Since the discovery of the first obesity gene in 1994, scientists have found about 50 genes involved in obesity. Some of them determine how individuals lay down fat and metabolize energy stores. Others regulate how much people want to eat in the first place, how they know when they’ve had enough and how likely they are to use up calories through activities ranging from fidgeting to running marathons. People who can get fat on very little fuel may be genetically programmed to survive in harsher environments. When the human species got its start, it was an advantage to be efficient. Today, when food is plentiful, it is a hazard.” http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/13/magazine/13obesity.html. In the text, the central idea is that obesity should be genetically treated. fat people may use different formulae to lose weight. fat regulates our feeling of satiety. genes contribute to obesity. researchers are discussing the consequences of obesity.
The prepositions that properly fill in blanks I, II, III and IV, in the text, are by, out, in and for. in, on, on and on. on, in, on and about. for, up, at and to. with, above, up and for.
Na escrita, destacam-se ambigüidades provocadas pelos termos poéticos. dados objetivos da realidade analisada. descrições que despertam a consciência do leitor. elementos explicativos sobre os termos utilizados. imagens que materializam a posição do narrador.
http://www.cartoonstock.com/directory/b/business_men.asp - Access: Apr. 2006. The cartoon shows that a person can go out of prison if he calls for man?s justice. has money for bribery. makes good friends. proves his innocence. none of the alternatives.
A READER’S BEST FRIEND by Matthew Philips A month ago, 8-year-old Connor Schultz could read 45 words a minute. Today he’s up to 93. The reason? A 4-year-old longhaired dachshund named Ruby who, once a week, visits Connor’s school in Schenectady, New York, and sits with him while he reads aloud. She doesn’t judge or correct him, and Connor has an audience he feels comfortable reading to. Ruby is one of 16,000 certified therapy dogs participating in readingassistance programs at schools and libraries across America, as educators have begun tapping into the claming effect dogs have on us. _____ word spreads and test scores improve, requests for visits from therapy dogs have been pouring in. “We get calls every day,” says Ursula Kemp, president of New Jersey’s Therapy Dogs International. And Utah-based Intermountain Therapy Animals has close to 1,300 dogs registered in its reading-assistance program. Newsweek (adapted) According to the text Connor likes to read in front of large audiences. school children can improve their reading speed with the help of certain trained dogs. more than 1,000 dogs are interested in taking reading lessons at Intermountain Therapy Animals. only certified dogs can judge and correct reading mistakes. the reading-assistance program offered by New Jersey?s Therapy Dogs International has improved their dogs? test scores considerably in recent years.
Texto I CALL FOR BRAZIL ABORTION DEBATE 01 Many abortions take place in illegal clinics, putting women’s lives at risk 04 The newly-appointed minister of health in Brazil has called for a wide-ranging debate on the issue of abortion 07 Under present law, abortion is only permitted when the life of the mother is at risk, or in the case of rape. The minister, 10 Jose Gomes Temporao, said in a newspaper interview he wanted to move the issue on from religious and moral contexts to a matter of health. But his remarks are thought certain to prompt a 15 firm response from the Roman Catholic Church in Brazil. 'Superficial' debate Mr Temporao says that around 200,000 women are treated for complications 20 following abortions every year, the vast majority of them believed to have taken place in illegal clinics involving a high degree of risk for the women. An opinion poll released at the weekend 25 suggests 65% of Brazilians are against changing the existing law. Mr Temporao says that result is not surprising as he believes the question has always been debated in a superficial way. 30 He told the newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo he wants Brazil to treat the discussion as a matter of public health. But there are already signs the minister can expect a vigorous response from the 35 Catholic Church, which is preparing for the arrival of Pope Benedict next month. On Friday the Archbishop of Rio de Janeiro, Cardinal Eusebio Oscar Scheid, interrupted an Easter passion play in the 40 city, walking on stage to tell the 10,000 strong audience that the massacre of innocents could not be allowed. While the Brazilian government has no official position on a referendum, it seems likely that debate on the issue will increase in the months ahead. Fonte: BBC News Monday, 9 April 2007, UK. Assinale a alternativa que apresenta um substantivo com o plural irregular. Religious ( linha 12). Complications ( linha 19). Lives ( linha 03). Believes ( linha 28). vigorous ( linha 34).
SMALL BRIBES, BIG CHALLENGE Extent and nature of petty corruption in South Africa Although grand corruption like that associated with the arms deal receives most media attention, petty corruption can be as damaging if left unchecked. According to the ISS 2003 National Victims of Crime survey, petty corruption was the second most prevalent crime in the country after housebreaking. Of most concern is that many citizens do not know how to report corruption, do not believe that doing so will change anything, and, despite good whistleblower provisions, are afraid of the consequences if they do report. It should be noted from the outset that many incidents of corruption or attempted corruption were probably not reported to the survey. Some victims may be aware of their perceived ‘complicity’ as the bribe payer (albeit on demand, possibly accompanied with the threat of withholding a service) and would worry that by answering the questions they might implicate themselves. Others may not know that being asked for a bribe in return for a service constitutes a crime, and may instead see this as a ‘normal’ transaction fee required to ensure the delivery of services. Similarly, requests for ‘favours’ and ‘gifts’ may be overlooked as a form of corruption. These acts typically involve the purchase of a cold drink, alcohol or a meal in return for speeding up a service or the efficient delivery of a service. Some members of the public may regard this as an accepted form of gratitude. The view that it would not change anything, and the lack of knowledge about where and how to report (which together represent two thirds of responses) could be addressed in the short term by a sustained awareness campaign by the public service. This should be geared towards informing citizens of why they need to counter corruption, thus popularising a whistleblowing culture, as well as ensuring that people know what channels to use to report (i.e. through national hotlines). A dedicated public education campaign is needed to address the lack of awareness about what constitutes corruption and how to report it. Consensus among the elite will not be enough to stop corrupt practices. Ultimately broad public participation is required to promote a culture of whistleblowing in the public and private sectors, but also to ensure that corruption is prevented in future. Hennie van Vuuren, Institute for Security Studies hvanvuuren@issct.org.za Access: Apr. 2006. (Adapted) The text argues that the best way to fight petty corruption is to conduct surveys. give punishment. interrupt services. raise awareness. none of the alternatives.
Leia o seguinte texto sobre gênero e responda à questão. Since the 1950s, the term gender has been increasingly used to distinguish a social role (gender role) and/or personal identity (gender identity) from biological sex. Sexologist John Money wrote in 1955, “the term gender role is used to signify all those things that a person says or does to disclose himself or herself as having the status of boy or man, girl or woman, respectively. Elements of such a role include clothing, speech patterns, movement and other factors not solely limited to biological sex. Many societies categorize all individuals as either male or female – however, this is not universal. Some societies recognize a third gender – for instance, the Two-Spirit people of some indigenous American peoples, and hijras of India and Pakistan – or even a fourth or fifth. Such categories may be an intermediate state between male and female, a state of sexlessness, or a distinct gender not dependent on male and female gender roles. Joan Roughgarden argues that in some non-human animal species, there can also be said to be more than two genders, in that there might be multiple templates for behavior available to individual organisms with a given biological sex. There is debate over to what extent gender is a social construct and to what extent it is a biological construct. One point of view in the debate is social constructionism, which suggests that gender is entirely a social construct. Contrary to social constructionism is essentialism, which suggests that it is entirely a biological construct. Others’ opinions on the subject lie somewhere in between. Disponível em: . Acesso em: 12 set. 2007. [Adaptado]. O objetivo do segundo parágrafo é evidenciar que os indivíduos são categorizados como homem ou mulher conforme as crenças religiosas de cada grupo social. os papéis de gênero se diferem do sexo biológico na espécie humana e em algumas espécies animais não-humanas. os estágios intermediários entre masculino e feminino são considerados uma fusão de ambos os sexos. a sexualidade e o comportamento de um indivíduo em diferentes sociedades são determinados pelo sexo biológico. em algumas espécies animais não-humanas há exemplos de indivíduos que sofrem mutação sexual.
Porto Seguro How to Get There “This trek ……… as ‘Trilha do Descobrimento’ and due to the remote places visited, with no infrastructure at all, the eco-tourism agencies usually ……… trip packages only during the summer and depending ……… the number of people interested. But, of course, if you have ……… own group formed, the agencies can arrange a trip for you. The prices ……… vary depending on the transport used (bus, airplane or jeep) and the number of days. The accommodation is done in tents and the meals are included. If you want an adventure on your own, check out the costs for the transportation to Porto Seguro.” (Speak up, July,2000) These packages do not include: Accommodation in tents Visits to far-reaching places Transportation to and from Porto Seguro Tours on boats Eco-tourism
Two in every three people on the planet–some 4 billion in total–are “excluded from the rule of law.” In many cases, this begins with the lack of official recognition of their birth: around 40% of the developing world’s five-yearold children are not registered as even existing. Later, people will find that the home they live in, the land they farm, or the business that they start, is not protected by legally enforceable property rights. Even in the rare cases when they can afford to go to court, the service is poor. India, for example, has only 11 judges for every 1million people. These alarming statistics are contained in a report from a commission on the legal empowerment of the poor, released on June 3rd at the United Nations. It argues that not only are such statistics evidence of grave injustice, they also reflect one of the main reasons why so much of humanity remains mired in poverty. Because they are outside the rule of law, the vast majority of poor people are obliged to work (if they work at all) in the informal economy, which is less productive than the formal, legal part of the economy. The Economist, June 7th 2008. O relatório citado no texto observa que a ilegalidade é uma condição combatida em países subdesenvolvidos. os dados estatísticos sobre a pobreza no mundo são incompletos. o fortalecimento do poder legal dos pobres melhoraria sua condição econômica e social. a pobreza só poderia ser combatida com a intervenção das Nações Unidas. a economia informal está em vias de ser abolida.
Leia os trechos do seguinte texto e responda à questão. The Frog Prince, Continued The Princess kissed the frog. He turned into a prince. And they lived happily ever after… Well, let’s just say they lived sort of happily for a long time. Okay, so they weren’t so happy. In fact, they were miserable. “Stop sticking your tongue out like that,” nagged the Princess. “How come you never want to go down to the pond anymore?” whined the Prince. The Prince and Princess were so unhappy. They didn´t know what to do. […] The Prince kissed the Princess. They both turned into frogs. And they hopped off happily ever after. The End. SCIESZKA, J. The Frog Prince, Continued. Illustrated by Steve Johnson. New York: Penguin Books, 1994. As frases introduzidas pelos termos And, Well, Okay e In fact (linhas de 3 a 7) indicam apelo emotivo, resultante da sonoridade, que aproxima o leitor. gradação que estabelece uma interação bemhumorada com o leitor. passagem temporal, típica da linguagem dos contos de fadas. oralidade que caracteriza socialmente as personagens. coloquialidade que transporta o leitor para a ordem do maravilhoso.
The text states that if you have no time left, you should dress conservatively. the ventilating suit can dry really fast. the washable business suit is being produced by a Japanese company. the Konaka suit can be easily bought at any store in Japan. factories all over the world have been developing coats that can fit anybody pretty well.
Brazilian ethanol is not causing deforestation Ethanol production in Brazil is not causing deforestation in the Amazon region, says Peter Zuurbier, Associate Professor and Director of the Latin America Office of Wageningen University, the world’s leading center of expertise on tropical agriculture. According to him, the notion often held by NGO’s that sugarcane is displacing cattle and soybean production into the Amazon is inaccurate. “The real problem lies in illegal deforestation and lack of property rights, as around 50 percent of the Amazon region has disputed titles and this is an invitation for timber companies,” he says. Prof. Zuurbier tries to explain a dynamic process between illegal activities in the Amazon rainforest and the expansion of agricultural lands towards that region. NGO’s often state that sugarcane production is displacing cattle and soybean production towards and into the Amazon, burning down the area to make it suitable for agriculture and pastures. According to Zuurbier, however, the process is slightly different. “Well organized groups and corporations with questionable land titles, but also official land owners began to chop down large acreages of forest to trade timber, both legally and illegally,” he says. “Usually, after the empty strips of land were abandoned, cattle owners would move into these cheap lands. However, after 3 to 4 years of cattle breeding, the thin soil of the Amazon is completely useless without any form of fertilization and livestock owners usually move into the next abandoned area. Soybean farmers meanwhile replace the livestock in these areas, recognizing the opportunity to fertilize the area for soybean production.” Prof. Zuurbier says the cause of deforestation and agricultural production in or near the Amazon, is simply illegal deforestation itself. According to him, the fact that Brazil still has questionable land titles, no set-aside policy and great difficulty to enforce existing laws to counter illegal timber trade, are the real reasons why the Amazon rainforest is in danger. (Ethanol Statistics - January 21st 2008, http://www.sucre-ethique.org/ Wageningen-expert-Brazilian) Zuurbier descreve da seguinte maneira o processo dinâmico entre atividades ilegais e a expansão da agricultura na Amazônia: corporações e grupos organizados desmatam regiões que, abandonadas, são ocupadas por criadores de gado, que nelas se estabelecem por dois anos. Depois desse período, o solo é ocupado por produtores de soja, que o fertilizam. grupos organizados e ONGs desmatam regiões que, abandonadas, são ocupadas por criadores de gado, que nelas se estabelecem por quatro anos. Depois desse período, o solo é ocupado por produtores de cana-de-açúcar, que o exploram. corporações e ONGs desmatam regiões que, abandonadas, são ocupadas por criadores de gado que nelas se estabelecem até fertilizarem o solo. Depois desse período, os produtores de cana-de-açúcar ocupam esse terreno. corporações, grupos organizados e proprietários legais desmatam vastas regiões que, abandonadas, são ocupadas por criadores de gado. Quando estes deixam essas regiões, o solo passa a ser ocupado por produtores de soja. proprietários com posse questionável desmatam regiões que, abandonadas, são ocupadas, por alguns anos, por plantadores de cana-de-açúcar. Depois desse período, o solo passa a ser ocupado por criadores de gado.
According to the text, we CANNOT say that water scarcity, worldwide, has affected businesses. has affected businesses. has improved the climate. has had social implications. nenhuma das anteriores.
Salad Poem (for Henri Rousseau le Douanier) The sun is shining outside Henri Rousseau (Gentil Rousseau) The sky is blue like your skies I want to paint the salad on the table bright crisp green red purple lettuce and radishes, ham and tomatoes Paint them like your jungles Gentle Rousseau I want to paint All things bright and beautiful All salads great and small I want to make Blue skies bluer Green grass greener Pink flowers brighter Like you Henri Rousseau Adrian Henri According to TEXT, Henri Rousseau is: a sculptor. a philosopher. a painter. a writer. a poet.
Inglês - UFG 2011 In the first paragraph the author supports the idea that the declaration “I love you, but...” is manipulative because it can be said with sweet compliments. romantic words. positive attitudes. funny expressions. thoughtful proposals.
A READER’S BEST FRIEND by Matthew Philips A month ago, 8-year-old Connor Schultz could read 45 words a minute. Today he’s up to 93. The reason? A 4-year-old longhaired dachshund named Ruby who, once a week, visits Connor’s school in Schenectady, New York, and sits with him while he reads aloud. She doesn’t judge or correct him, and Connor has an audience he feels comfortable reading to. Ruby is one of 16,000 certified therapy dogs participating in readingassistance programs at schools and libraries across America, as educators have begun tapping into the claming effect dogs have on us. _____ word spreads and test scores improve, requests for visits from therapy dogs have been pouring in. “We get calls every day,” says Ursula Kemp, president of New Jersey’s Therapy Dogs International. And Utah-based Intermountain Therapy Animals has close to 1,300 dogs registered in its reading-assistance program. Newsweek (adapted) The connector that correctly fills in the blank in the text is: therefore only if although in addition to as
GLOBAL WARMING On Feb. 2, 2007, the United Nations scientific panel studying climate change declared that the evidence of a warming trend is “unequivocal”, and that human activity has “very likely” been the driving force in that change over the last 50 years. The last report by the group, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in 2001, had found that humanity had “likely” played a role. The greenhouse effect has been part of the earth’s workings since its earliest days. Gases like carbon dioxide and methane allow sunlight to reach the earth, but prevent some of the resulting heat from radiating back out into space. Without the greenhouse effect, the planet would never have warmed enough to allow life to form. But as ever larger amounts of carbon dioxide have been released along with the development of industrial economies, the atmosphere has grown warmer at an accelerating rate. Since 1970, temperatures have gone up at nearly three times the average for the 20th century. Global Warming Science - The New York Times, May 6, 2007 According to the first paragraph, I. environmental problems may be a big scientific misunderstanding. II. climate change is growing because of too much driving. III. climate change has most probably been triggered by human activity. IV. temperatures have been higher in the last half century. V. man likes playing with serious problems. The only two correct alternatives are I e II I e IV II e V III e IV III e V
Leia o texto a seguir e responda à questão. O título do texto expressa uma dúvida de executivos que pretendem instalar filiais de suas empresas em outros países. procuram ascensão profissional por meio de experiência no exterior. querem emigrar para outros países em busca de fortuna. visam obter estágio profissionalizante em empresas norte-americanas. escolhem um país estrangeiro para começar uma nova carreira.
Inglês - UFG 2011 What type of narrative did Chimamanda Adichie write when she was a child? Myths Romances Mysteries Horror stories Fables
No texto, as expressões pay-off (1.º parágrafo), a couple of (1.º parágrafo), my reach (2.° parágrafo) e becoming healthier (2.° parágrafo) significam, respectivamente, sem pagamento, alguns, minha riqueza, e tornar-se saudável. pagamento, uma dupla de, meu objetivo e tornar-se saudável. corte no pagamento, uma dupla de, minha riqueza e ficar doente. desafio, um casal de, meu objetivo e tornar-se mais saudável. recompensa, alguns, meu alcance e tornar-se mais saudável.
HOW MUCH CAN SCHOOLS DO? In the fall of 2005, some 17 months before Cho Seung- Hui went on his killing spree at Virginia Tech, his behavior was so disturbing that his creative-writing professor had him removed from her class. Later that semester, two female students complained separately about what one called his “annoying” advances, and after an acquaintance warned that Cho might be suicidal, he was detained for several hours, evaluated at a local mental-health facility and released. When it comes to the complex intersection of campus safety and mental health, the questions of what counts as sufficient warning signs and how universities should respond to them often end up in court. Move too quickly by, say, suspending a depressed student for posing a threat upon himself or others, and schools can – and do – get sued for discriminating against the disabled. Julie Rawe; Time Magazine, April 30, 2007 The auxiliary verb “do” refers to Move too quickly. say. suspending a depressed student. posing a threat. get sued.
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC NEWS REPORTING OUR WORLD DAILY Dog Genome Mapped, Shows Similarities to Humans Stefan Lovgren for National Geographic News, December 7, 2005 Researchers have finished mapping the genome of the domestic dog. The results show among other things that dogs, mice, and humans share a core set of DNA. A rough sequencing of a poodle's genome was reported in 2003, but it covered only about 75 percent of the genes. This time, "we have sequenced 99 percent of the genome of a female boxer," said Kerstin Lindblad-Toh, a geneticist at the Broad Institute of Harvard University and MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She is the lead author of the dog-gene study, which appears tomorrow in the journal Nature. The researchers also examined DNA from ten different dog breeds to spot genetic differences between them. The comparison could help scientists find the genetic roots of dog behavior and physiology and − perhaps most importantly − help them identify genes that cause diseases in both dogs and humans. Using tissue taken from a boxer named Tasha, scientists have mapped the genome of the domestic dog. (Disponível em http://news.nationalgeographic.com. Acesso em 21/12/2005.) Em which appears tomorrow… (linha 6), o pronome relativo retoma o sentido de female boxer. dog-gene study. Kerstin Lindblad-Toh. Broad Institute of Harvard University. lead author.
As expressões Kiched the bucket e went to the sky, relacionadas a uma das personagens do penúltimo quadrinho da história, significam que a personagem chutou o balde a caminho do céu. chutou o balde ao mentir a respeito do gato. morreu e foi para o céu. não mentiu e mudou sua atitude antes de morrer. não foi para o céu, foi uma mentira do gato.
Texto II BRAZIL FLIGHTS CRIPPLED BY STRIKE 01 Airports have resumed flights in Brazil after air traffic controllers suspended a strike called to protest about their working conditions. 05 Government negotiators and trade unions reached an agreement to end the strike, which briefly halted all flights out of all of the country's 49 airports. Action had spread across Brazil after air 10 traffic controllers began a hunger strike in the capital, Brasilia. Thousands of passengers were left stranded by the protest. The striking controllers had said they had 15 lost all confidence in their commanders and the equipment at their disposal. Air traffic controllers in Brazil have staged similar protests since last September, when 154 people were killed in the country's 20 worst air disaster. The BBC's Tim Hirsch in Sao Paulo says internal flights have been in a state of chaos since the crash. Fonte: BBC NEWS, 31 March 2007 – UK Assinale a alternativa CORRETA. O motivo da greve dos controladores de tráfego aéreo é: a solidariedade aos colegas demitidos. o desastre aéreo ocorrido em setembro de 2006. a pressão recebida por parte dos passageiros. a pressão recebida por parte dos familiares das vítimas do desastre aéreo. a melhoria das condições de trabalho.
Read the text The words that properly fill in blanks I and II, in the text, are became and will be. had become and would have been. will become and will be. becomes and will be. would become and were.
Leia o texto a seguir e responda à questão. NEUROSCIENCE NO MORE...PLEASE! A chocolate orgy for science’s sake. How does your brain know when you’ve had too much of a good thing? Dana Small, a cognitive neuroscientist at Northwestern University’s School of Medicine in Chicago, decided to look into it by feeding people chocolate. She stood in the hallway of her department and recruited nine self-proclaimed cocoa-bean lovers, hooked them up to MRI machines, gave them chocolate, and then measured blood flow in their brains while they ate. Between bites, they were asked two questions: “Do you want another piece?” and “On a scale of minus-10 to plus-10, how much did you like the last piece?” Of course, in the time the volunteers’ euphoria over tasting the confection turned to satiation, and, as it did, Small saw changes in their brain activity. When the subjects ate chocolate and enjoyed it, a region associated with mood – the medial part of the orbital frontal cortex – was active. But as they began to feel satiated, blood stopped flowing to that area and increased in another region probably responsible for the decision to stop eating – the adjacent lateral orbital frontal cortex. Such images will help scientists better understand how addiction causes the brain’s normal response to a good thing to go awry. But the research also yielded a curious, unexpected result: Women ate twice as much chocolate as men before getting their fill. And while men stopped eating because they began to find the chocolate unpleasant, women stopped only when their bellies were stuffed. During the course of the study, Small also discovered another interesting fact: People of Asian descent tended to be satisfied after eating only one or two pieces of chocolate. Non-Asians, on the other hand, practically gorged themselves. SINHA, G. NO MORE...PLEASE! Popular Science. New York, v. 259, n. 7, Jan. 2002, p. 42. Vocabulário to go awry: sair do curso normal gorged themselves: empanturraram-se Da leitura do texto, conclui-se que os participantes da pesquisa, de ambos os sexos, eram apreciadores de chocolate. o experimento foi realizado por meio de exames laboratoriais. a sensação de saciedade surge dez minutos após a ingestão incessante de chocolate. a carência afetiva provoca, nas mulheres, um impulso para um maior consumo de chocolate. descendentes asiáticos satisfazem-se quando comem grande quantidade de chocolate.
Inglês - UFG 2010/1 The reader is invited to take position in the discussion when the author makes reference to family members. says everyone lies on MySpace and FaceBook. mentions that profiles were checked. asks some questions related to lies. states that teens spend a lot of time online.
A year of fear The attacks of September 11th 2001 in America inspired extremists to commit mass murder in Bali, Riyadh, Madrid and London. The avian-flu scare in South-East Asia sent governments worldwide scrambling to buy vaccines. Religious tensions in oil-rich Nigeria routinely push energy prices higher in America. Hurricanes in the United States cost European insurance companies billions. […] Among the potential man-made disasters, terrorism remains one of the world’s big worries for 2007. There is the familiar nightmare of a massively destructive attack that kills thousands and shocks the global economy. […] And terrorism thrives on innovation. An attack on shipping in the Persian Gulf’s Strait of Hormuz, for example, could send the price of oil to $100 a barrel or more. Sharpening geopolitical tensions add to the worries. […] So far, globalisation has proved remarkably resilient. It has marched on in recent years, despite natural disasters, terrorist attacks, bloody regional conflicts, trade tensions, various economic shocks and the concerted efforts of anti-globalists. But that is no cause for complacency in what promises to be a risk-laden 2007. Leo Abruzzese, The World in 2007 According to TEXT, one of the biggest problems faced by the world today is: terrorism. avian-flu. religious tensions. higher energy prices. hurricanes.
A READER’S BEST FRIEND by Matthew Philips A month ago, 8-year-old Connor Schultz could read 45 words a minute. Today he’s up to 93. The reason? A 4-year-old longhaired dachshund named Ruby who, once a week, visits Connor’s school in Schenectady, New York, and sits with him while he reads aloud. She doesn’t judge or correct him, and Connor has an audience he feels comfortable reading to. Ruby is one of 16,000 certified therapy dogs participating in readingassistance programs at schools and libraries across America, as educators have begun tapping into the claming effect dogs have on us. _____ word spreads and test scores improve, requests for visits from therapy dogs have been pouring in. “We get calls every day,” says Ursula Kemp, president of New Jersey’s Therapy Dogs International. And Utah-based Intermountain Therapy Animals has close to 1,300 dogs registered in its reading-assistance program. Newsweek (adapted) The meaning of the expression “tap into” in the text is to accept or choose something that is being offered or suggested. to remember what has to be done now or in the future. to make use as much as possible of the ideas and experience that a group of people has. to try to deal with a difficult problem. to feel as if something is slightly wrong or unusual, either physically or emotionally.
Leia as seguintes placas e responda à questão. A segunda placa se difere da primeira porque apresenta como característica principal o humor sarcástico. permite uma inferência precisa do estabelecimento onde está colocada. se dirige a um interlocutor de uma determinada faixa etária. orienta a respeito de um comportamento animal específico. emprega uma linguagem mais objetiva, direta e formal.
Sobre os sentidos do texto, marque V para as afirmativas verdadeiras e F para as falsas. ( ) A figura dos três cães e a expressão ao lado de cada uma podem ser entendidas como “Não importa como sejam os cães”. ( ) The Canine Company exige a presença do veterinário para atestar a saúde do cão no ato de seu registro. ( ) Em Thank you for your cooperation, The Canine Company agradece aos proprietários dos cães pela colaboração. ( ) É proposta de The Canine Company treinar, higienizar e alojar cães. Assinale a seqüência correta. V, V, F, V V, F, F, F F, V, F, V V, F, V, V F, F, V, F
The following sentences were taken from the site www.livingin-canada.com. Which one is intended to persuad the reader to go there? House prices are higher in Canada's big cities than they are in the surrounding towns. Despite relatively low uemployment rates in Canada, getting work can be difficult for migrants. The vast majority of Canada's population lives near the southern border with the USA. Canada offers support to every individual, trying to make sure that every citizen feels at home. If your English skills are not excellent, you may find it almost impossible to get a job in Canada.
Pssst. Want to Know a Secret? 01 Aug. 21, 2006 - A women's deodorant company recently launched a major promotional campaign that encourages women to "Share your Secret." In national 05 TV ads and on outdoor billboards—including one in New York's Times Square—women are being applauded for their candid revelations of long-buried shames and thrills. "M" finally unburdens herself about her 20- 10 year struggle with bulimia, while Donna fesses up that she has slept with 70 men, not the mere four she told her husband. Wendy has had both her nipples pierced for a year 14 and nobody knows. http://society.guardian.co.uk/health/story/0,,1722885,00.html Assinale a alternativa INCORRETA. Wendy usa piercing em ambos os seios. Wendy usa piercing há mais de um ano. Wendy usa piercing sem ninguém saber. Wendy usava piercing quando era adolescente. Wendy é uma das garotas entrevistadas no comercial.
Coasting on Past Glory The Amazon is still largely intact, but the future hinges on decisions being made now. From the window of a Boeing, few countries are greener than Brazil. Since much of this vast territory in the heart of South America is still unpeopled and unblemished, it’s not surprising that Brazil looks good against the backdrop of a mistreated planet. It ranks 34th of 149 nations in Yale and Columbia’s Environmental Performance Index – greener than Ireland (35th) and the United States (39th). But how long will the country be able to hold on to this favorable score? To get a better look, you have to go to 9,000 meters, the altitude from which the NASA remote-sensing satellites sweep the earth. Every year, scientists at Brazil’s National Institute for Space Research (INPE) pore over satellite images to produce the most detailed survey of deforestation of any nation in the world. Such candor has won Brazil kudos, but also criticism. Brazil is the fourth biggest contributor of greenhouse gases globally, of which 75 percent comes from the felling and burning of forests. So when data released by INPE in late May showed that 5,850 square kilometers of forest (an area larger than Brunei) had disappeared from August 2007 to April 2008 – a 17 percent spike from the year before – the planet took notice. “Brazil has a fantastic endowment from nature but is failing when it comes to managing it,” says Judicael Clevelario Junior, head of environmental studies at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), the census bureau. Brazil’s green laurels are not an illusion. Four fifths of its electric power comes from hydroelectric plants. It is the world leader in biofuels – nearly 30 percent of its cars run on ethanol. The trouble is that these virtues reflect sound decisions made in the 1970s, during the ambitious military government of Gen. Ernesto Geisel. Brazil has not always followed them up. (…) Fortunately, Brazil has options. Its booming economy is not beholden to coal-fired power plants, and the rain forest is still largely intact. “Brazil has a rare opportunity to transform itself into a rich country and still maintain its natural capital,” says Clevelario Jr. If it can go back to its old habit of making the right environmental moves. (Newsweek, July 14th 2008, http://www.newsweek.com/id/143696) Indique a alternativa correta. Embora quase toda a nossa energia seja gerada por hidroelétricase apesar de sermos o país líder no uso de biocombustíveis, perdemos 5.850 km2 de nossas florestasde agosto de 2007 a abril de 2008. Esse contraste mostraque falhamos no gerenciamento de nossos recursos. Embora sejamos o país líder em uso de bio-combustíveis,perdemos 5.850 km2 de floresta até agosto de 2007. Esse contraste significa que precisamos retomar a ambição dogoverno militar dos anos 70. De acordo com o IBGE, nosso país tem recursos naturais fantásticos mas, devido à ambição do atual governo, não temos sabido gerenciá-los. Por esse motivo, até abril de 2008 perdemos 5.850 km2 da floresta Amazônica. Segundo cientistas da NASA, o Brasil tem recursos naturais fantásticos e várias opções, podendo transformar-se em um país cada vez mais rico. Para isso, é preciso fazer mudanças ambientais ambiciosas. Segundo o IBGE, Yale e Colúmbia, o Brasil tem opções e recursos naturais fantásticos, podendo transformar-se em um país cada vez mais rico, sem perder seu capital natural. Para isso, é preciso retomar a ambição do governo militar.
Leia o trecho a seguir e responda à questão. Larabi’s Ox ... The American took several deep breaths, appearing to stare at the new mosque.… Then suddenly he was moving ahead, toward the open doorway of the mosque. “No,” the kid said. He dared to grab the American´s arm. “Please, it is not permitted.” “Rules were made to be bent.” The American puffed and winked. “Not in Morocco.” “I’d like to go in there, kid.” “But it is not permitted.” “Why not? I’ll take off my shoes.” “You are not of the faith.” “In Spain, they let anybody into mosques. What’s so special here? The kid frowned, “I am very sorry. It is not so much what is special here as what is not special everywhere else.” The American shrugged. “Well, can’t I even look in the door?” Tony Ardizzone BLANTON, L. L.; LEE, L. The multicultural workshop. Book 3. Boston, MA: Heinle & Heinle, 1995, p. 178. [Adaptado]. The dialogue between the American and the Moroccan kid shows a conflict which is psychological. social. cultural. linguistic. sentimental.
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC NEWS REPORTING OUR WORLD DAILY Dog Genome Mapped, Shows Similarities to Humans Stefan Lovgren for National Geographic News, December 7, 2005 Researchers have finished mapping the genome of the domestic dog. The results show among other things that dogs, mice, and humans share a core set of DNA. A rough sequencing of a poodle's genome was reported in 2003, but it covered only about 75 percent of the genes. This time, "we have sequenced 99 percent of the genome of a female boxer," said Kerstin Lindblad-Toh, a geneticist at the Broad Institute of Harvard University and MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She is the lead author of the dog-gene study, which appears tomorrow in the journal Nature. The researchers also examined DNA from ten different dog breeds to spot genetic differences between them. The comparison could help scientists find the genetic roots of dog behavior and physiology and − perhaps most importantly − help them identify genes that cause diseases in both dogs and humans. Using tissue taken from a boxer named Tasha, scientists have mapped the genome of the domestic dog. (Disponível em http://news.nationalgeographic.com. Acesso em 21/12/2005.) Sobre o texto, assinale a afirmativa correta. "Dog Genome Mapped, Shows Similarities to Humans" caracteriza-se como artigo científico. Discutir os resultados de uma pesquisa sobre o mapeamento do genoma de cães domésticos é a intenção predominante do texto. O cientista que está à frente do estudo apresentado é o produtor do texto. A cientista responsável pelo projeto dará entrevista à revista Nature, apresentando detalhes sobre o genoma de uma fêmea da raça boxer. Foi publicado na National Geographic News, revista on-line que se propõe a dar informações diárias sobre acontecimentos mundiais.
SAVING THE WORLD IS WITHIN OUR GRASP By Bill Gates Last year my wife, Melinda, and I visited an AIDS clinic in Durban, South Africa. We met women who walked miles from nearby townships. When they arrived, they were greeted by a well-trained staff. There was an ample supply of antiretroviral drugs, which can help people with AIDS stay healthy for years. Patients were receiving counseling. As we chatted with one of the doctors in the clinic, it struck me: something was fundamentally different. Nearly a decade ago, when Melinda and I started our foundation, we would go to sub-Saharan Africa or developing countries in other regions and see health workers struggling with broken equipment and empty medicine chests. We walked down dirty hallways packed with exhausted mothers holding sick children. (…) But that’s starting to change. Today governments, aid groups and communities are simply refusing to accept the notion that diseases like malaria and tuberculosis will haunt us forever. The evidence is in: these problems can be solved. The world can point to a number of victories already. Smallpox is gone, of course, and polio nearly so. Thanks to the leadership of the Carter Center, we’ve virtually eliminated guinea-worm disease, an excruciatingly painful parasite that is ingested with tainted water. There are new treatments available for visceral leishmaniasis, also called black fever, which is second only to malaria as the world’s deadliest parasite killer. […] Some lifesaving solutions can be extremely simple – iodized salt to prevent stunted growth, for example, or oral rehydration solutions to fight diarrhea. Consider that one of the easiest ways to cut down on infant mortality is to keep babies warm and dry. Earlier this year, Save the Children recruited knitters through the internet to knit and crochet 280,000 caps for infants. Other solutions will arise from pioneering research now underway. Researchers are hard at work developing vaccines that don’t need refrigeration or needles, which could make it easier and cheaper to deliver immunization in poor countries. Scientists are making important progress on new tools, like microbicide gels, to help women protect themselves against HIV. And clinical trials around the world are now testing what may be the greatest scientific breakthroughs of our time: vaccines for malaria, Tb and AIDS. (…) At the same time, I’m amazed by the work of the Nothing But Nets campaign, which has managed through Web-based marketing to raise $13 million – mostly from young people – for insecticide-treated bed nets. I believe we stand at a moment of unequaled opportunity. Governments must now step up to the plate with more money – wisely targeted – to expand effective global health programs to reach all those in need. Businesses, community groups and individuals all play a role as well. When Melinda and I visited that PEPFAR clinic in South Africa, we were thrilled to see the progress we’ve made against one deadly disease. I’m now more convinced than ever that we can create a healthier world for everyone. From: NEWSWEEK, OCTOBER 1, 2007 As to the AIDS clinic in Durban, we can say that it is a hundred miles away from nearby townships. has a well trained staff and a large supply of drugs to help people with AIDS. is packed with broken equipments and empty medicine chests. uses microbicide gels to keep mosquitoes away. n.d.a.
